                                                       OFFICIAL


NETWORK RAIL                         Timetable Planning Rules                         Version:   4.1
Anglia                Amended Final Principal and Subsidiary Change Timetable                    12th September
                                                                                         Date:
                                                2024                                             2023
                                                                                         Page:   53 of 183


4 Rolling Stock Restrictions
4.1 Locomotive Route Availability
The route availability of Locomotives is contained in the Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetable.
It can be accessed by line of route then using the ‘Route Clearance’ tab.
The following tables are shown

Table D4A – Route Clearance of Diesel Locomotives Classes 8 to 47/0,2 & 3
Table D4B - Route Clearance of Diesel Locomotives Classes 47/4 to 70 and MPV
Table 4C - Route Clearance of Electric Locomotives

4.2 Passenger Stock Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table A, and select Route Clearance.

4.3 Freight Wagon Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. The Route Availability for a given location is in the ‘Signalling and Remarks’ column of
Table A.

The route availability of Freight Containers and Swap Bodies is also contained in the Sectional Appendix to the
Working Timetable.

The following table is shown

Table D5 – Route clearance of Freight Containers/Swap Bodies

Trains conveying vehicles that have a heavy axle weight or other exceptional characteristics, or vehicles conveying
containers or swap bodies require an RT3973 form.

Note: The Rule Book GERT8000 Section TW4 of defines a container as an intermodal transport unit constructed to
a standard (usually specified by the ISO) suitable for conveyance by road, rail or sea.

Note: The Sectional Appendix does not cover the CTRL HS1. The CTRL has its own Working Manual.

4.4 Freight Train Load Limits
Trailing load limits for all traction types are contained in the Freight Loads Book published by Network Rail.

Note: It is important to understand the weight limitations that apply to trains especially over sections of heavily
graded routes. Coupling strength information is also contained in the Freight Loads Book. Coupling strength is
important in determining the trailing loads that trains can convey.

4.5 Freight Train Length Limits
Refer to the Freight Train Loads Book published by Network Rail for the length limits of freight trains and also to
Section 5.3 of this publication.

Note: The Sectional Appendix quotes loop lengths in metres and feet. These are the absolute lengths of the loop
from the signal at the outlet to the fouling point at the entrance to the loop.




                                  Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
