                                                      OFFICIAL


NETWORK RAIL                        Timetable Planning Rules                        Version:   4.1
Anglia               Amended Final Principal and Subsidiary Change Timetable                   12th September
                                                                                       Date:
                                               2024                                            2023
                                                                                       Page:   3 of 183


1 Introduction and General Notes

Network Rail provide the Timetable Planning Rules document to Train Operators and other interested parties to set
out the rules which are applicable to Access Requests for scheduling of train paths on the Network Rail network.
Separate sections of Timetable Planning Rules are prepared for each Route with a National Timetable Planning
Rules document setting out procedures to be followed and other nationally applicable rules.

Network Rail will determine the contents of Timetable Planning Rules through consultation with Train Operators
with the primary aim of achieving the optimal balance between access to the network for train operations and
performance robustness of the resulting train plan. This consultation is in line with the Network Code Part D, and
Train Operators have a right of appeal to Timetabling Sub-Committee against the contents of the Final Timetable
Planning Rules.

Final Timetable Planning Rules are issued with timetable Access Request Information before the commencement
of the development period for the Principal Change timetable to which the Rules apply and cover a 12-month
period. Revised Timetable Planning Rules are issued with timetable Access Request Information before the
commencement of the Subsidiary Change timetable development period and show changes applicable to the
Subsidiary Change timetable period which have been agreed since the issue of the annual Timetable Planning
Rules.

Timetable Planning Rules may be changed only through this twice-yearly process or by the change procedure
described in the National Timetable Planning Rules

Train Operators’ Access Requests for train paths must be compliant with Timetable Planning Rules. If a Train
Operator wishes to submit an Access Request for a train path which is not compliant with Timetable Planning Rules
it should consult the Network Rail Capacity Planning team to establish whether an amendment to Timetable
Planning Rules is likely to be agreed and, if appropriate, submit an amendment proposal which will be considered
by Network Rail in accordance with the Change Procedure set out in the National Timetable Planning Rules. The
Timetable Planning Rules amendment proposal should be submitted to Network Rail as early as possible and
certainly no later than the time of submission of the Access Request. If the proposed change is likely to involve the
calculation of new sectional running times or a physical investigation then the Train Operator should liaise with the
Capacity Planning team to establish a realistic timescale for evaluation of the proposed change before submission
of the Access Request.




                                  Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
