                                                      OFFICIAL

NETWORK RAIL                             Timetable Planning Rules                      Version:   4.1
East Midlands                      Final Subsidiary Change Rules 2024                    Date:    13th September
                                                                                                  2023
                                                                                         Page:    3 of 123


1 Introduction and General Notes

Network Rail provide the Timetable Planning Rules document to Train Operators and other interested parties to set
out the rules which are applicable to Access Requests for scheduling of train paths on the Network Rail network.
Separate sections of Timetable Planning Rules are prepared for each Route with a National Timetable Planning
Rules document setting out procedures to be followed and other nationally applicable rules.

Network Rail will determine the contents of Timetable Planning Rules through consultation with Train Operators with
the primary aim of achieving the optimal balance between access to the network for train operations and
performance robustness of the resulting train plan. This consultation is in line with the Network Code Part D, and
Train Operators have a right of appeal to Timetabling Panel against the contents of the Final Timetable Planning
Rules.

The Timetable Planning Rules are revised on a bi-annual basis, each revised version being operative for the same
Timetable Period as the Working Timetable to which they pertain. Timetable Planning Rules may be changed only
through this twice–yearly process or by the change procedure described in the National Timetable Planning Rules.

Train Operators’ Access Proposals for Train Slots must be compliant with Timetable Planning Rules. If a Train
Operator wishes to submit an Access Proposal for a Train Slot which is not compliant with Timetable Planning Rules,
it should consult the Network Rail Capacity Planning team to establish whether an amendment to Timetable Planning
Rules is likely to be agreed and, if appropriate, submit an amendment proposal which will be considered by Network
Rail in accordance with the Change Procedure set out in the National Timetable Planning Rules. The Timetable
Planning Rules amendment proposal should be submitted to Network Rail as early as possible and certainly no later
than the time of submission of the Access Proposal. If the proposed change is likely to involve the calculation of new
sectional running times or a physical investigation, the Train Operator should liaise with the Capacity Planning team
to establish a realistic timescale for evaluation of the proposed change before submission of the Access Proposal.




                                       Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
