                                                         OFFICIAL

NETWORK RAIL                               Timetable Planning Rules                         Version:   4.1
East Midlands                        Final Subsidiary Change Rules 2024                       Date:    13th September
                                                                                                       2023
                                                                                              Page:    14 of 123

Activity Codes – Notes
5. At any one event, the following groups are mutually exclusive
    a) D, U, T, N, S, TW, OP.
    b) –D, –U, –T.
    c) TB, TF.
    d) KC, KE.
6. N, R, G, D and U are only valid with Train Categories XC, XD, XI, XX, XZ, OO, OW, OL, BS, BR and blank
(i.e. 'advertised' services). R, D and U are additionally valid with Train Categories XU and OU (i.e.
unadvertised services).
7. K, KC, KE, KF, KS are only valid with Train Categories starting X or O.
8. If TF is present then none of K, KC, KE, KF, KS can be present.
9. Activity T indicates that a train stops to pick up and set down. This normally refers to passengers. Activity
–T indicates that the train stops to attach and detach vehicles. At any location where a 'stop' time is shown,
TPS or a similar system will assume a default Activity is required unless otherwise specified. These default
Activities are as follows T for trains with a Train Category starting in X or O, OP for trains with a Train
Category starting in Z or E, and –T for all other trains (but see below). The default Activity will be generated
when the upload file is created.
10. If Activities U, D, N, R, OP, S, TW, –U or –D are specified then this overrides the defaults and only the
specified Activities will be included in the upload file (it is not necessary to use the * suppression code if
these codes are present).
11. If a traffic Activity is NOT required at a 'stop' location with Activities other than U, D, N, R, OP, S, TW, –U
or –D (e.g. at 'C' or 'L' stops) then the * must be input to the TPS or similar system train specification at that
location to suppress –T or T. If the * is not added to indicate a non–traffic stop then T, –T or OP will be
added to the upload file
12. If an Activity –T (only) is required on a train with a Category starting in X or O it is necessary to add a * to
the ITPS spec (to suppress ‘T’) and positively show –T in the Activity column.




                                          Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
