                                                       OFFICIAL

NETWORK RAIL                              Timetable Planning Rules                       Version:    4.1
East Midlands                       Final Subsidiary Change Rules 2024                     Date:     13th September
                                                                                                     2023
                                                                                            Page:    32 of 123


4 Rolling Stock Restrictions

4.1 Locomotive Route Availability
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table A and select Route Clearance.


4.2 Passenger Stock Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table A and select Route Clearance.


4.3 Freight Wagon Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. The Route Availability for a given location is in the ‘Signalling and Remarks’ column of Table
A. Route Clearance Table D5 Route clearance of freight vehicles gives further guidance on freight wagon
restrictions.

Trains conveying vehicles that have a heavy axle weight or other exceptional characteristics, or vehicles conveying
containers or swap bodies require an RT3973 form.

Note: The Rule Book GERT8000 Section TW4 of defines a container as an intermodal transport unit constructed to a
standard (usually specified by the ISO) suitable for conveyance by road, rail or sea.


4.4 Freight Train Load Limits
Trailing load limits for all traction types are contained in the Freight Loads Book published by Network Rail.

Note It is important to understand the weight limitations that apply to trains especially over sections of heavily graded
routes. Coupling strength information is also contained in the Freight Loads Book. Coupling strength is important in
determining the trailing loads that trains can convey.


4.5 Freight Train Length Limits
Refer to the Freight Train Loads Book published by Network Rail for the length limits of freight trains.

Note: The Sectional Appendix quotes loop lengths in metres and feet. These are the absolute lengths of the loop
from the signal at the outlet to the fouling point at the entrance to the loop.


4.6 Engineers’ Trains Restrictions
Some On-Track Machines (OTMs) do not reliably activate track circuits. These OTMs must use one of the following
special reporting numbers 6Z09, 7Z09 or 8Z09*. Because these OTMs do not reliably activate track circuits it is not
possible to apply the headways and junction margins as outlined in Timetable Planning Rules consistently and it is
therefore not possible for Capacity Planning to provide timings for these movements.
* Source GE/RT 8000–OTM



                                         Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
