                                                      OFFICIAL

NETWORK RAIL                             Timetable Planning Rules                      Version:   4.1
East Midlands                      Final Subsidiary Change Rules 2024                    Date:    13th September
                                                                                                  2023
                                                                                          Page:   31 of 123


3 Electrification

3.1 Electrification Limits
Limits of the 25 kV AC and 750V DC electrification systems are contained in Table A of the Sectional Appendix to the
Working Timetables, issued by, Network Rail. Refer to Table A for the given location to identify the type of
electrification that applies.

3.2 Electrification Supply Restrictions
Under normal conditions, the electrification power supplies will not place any restrictions on the use of approved
electric traction. However, the Route Clearance sections of the Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables, issued
by, Network Rail do tabulate restrictions on the movement of electric trains. Refer to Table A and select Route
Clearance.

Under maintenance conditions, certain sections of the electrified network may be blocked to electric traction. These
restrictions are contained within the Network Rail Engineering Access Statement for the appropriate year. Additional
restrictions may also arise in connection with engineering possessions requested through the Engineering Access
Statement amendment procedure.

LN3201 St Pancras to Tapton Jn (via Derby)

Due to power supply constraints, if a Timetable Participant wishes to run any services in electric mode above what was
included in the Prior Working Timetable then the Timetable Participant should discuss with Capacity Planning to make
sure the additional electric services can be accommodated. A list of what is possible in electric mode is available from
Capacity Planning.




                                       Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
