 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                       Version: 4.1
 Kent & HS1                                                    OFFICIAL
                                       Final Proposal for Subsidiary                              25th August 2023
                                                                                        Date:
                                           Timetable 2024                               Page:     62 of 168



5 Running Times, Margins and Allowances
Except where otherwise stated, the information in this section of the Timetable Planning Rules reflects the
general rules used in developing the 1994/5 timetable (Several exceptions to the general rules were agreed for
1994/5 and exceptions may continue to be possible with the specific agreement of Network Rail in every case).

5.1 Sectional Running Times
The definition for Sectional Running Times (SRTs) is listed in Section 1.4 of the National TPRs

5.1.1 Source of Current SRTs
The definitive catalogue of SRTs is held within BPlan.

5.1.2 Method of Calculation
Sectional running times (SRTs) are agreed between Train Operators and Network Rail as part of the agreement
of Timetable Planning Rules: normally they will not change from one timetable to the next. Network Rail will,
however, re-calculate SRTs for particular train/route combinations in the following circumstances:

i) Where a Train Operator anticipates using a train/route combination for which no suitable SRTs exist;
ii) Where Network Rail anticipates a change to route data, e.g. line speed changes;
iii) Where there is evidence that the SRTs in current use do not adequately represent real train performance;
iv) Where it is cost-effective to re-calculate all SRTs on a route at the same time as a re-calculation for a
     particular train type.

Timetable Planning Rules values can be calculated in a number of legitimate ways including:

a)   Through actual timing of trains
b)   Use of On Train Monitoring Recorder (OTMR) systems
c)   Use of computer system actual values
d)   Use of computer simultion tools
e)   By any other agreed methodology

On certain routes a 5% allowance is included in the calculation to take account of the lack of explicit engineering
allowances in Timetable Planning Rules.

Network Rail carries out rounding of the calculated SRTs to obtain values in half minutes. Rounding is carried out
cumulatively over a route, with intermediate times being rounded down and arrival at final destination being
rounded up. However, during this process the accumulative value of the SRTs should never be more than +/–
half–a–minute from the accumulative value of the ‘raw’ data at important locations such as junctions and major
stations.

Network Rail carries out other adjustments to the rounded SRTs, e.g. to remove obvious anomalies where
differences in rounding cause a train to have a longer SRT than that of another train with poorer performance. On
intensively used, slow speed route sections, Network Rail may adjust SRTs for different train types to show the
same numeric values in order to make maximum use of available line capacity.

5.1.3 New and Revised Sectional Running Times
New and revised SRTs are agreed between Train Operators and Network Rail on an individual basis and are
supplied by the method agreed in each instance.



                                      Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
