 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                       Version: 4.1
 Kent & HS1                                                     OFFICIAL
                                        Final Proposal for Subsidiary                             25th August 2023
                                                                                        Date:
                                           Timetable 2024                               Page:      53 of 168



4 Rolling Stock Restrictions

4.1 Locomotive Route Availability
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table A, and select Route Clearance.


4.2 Passenger Stock Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table A, and select Route Clearance.

    SO250A GROSVENOR BRIDGE JUNCTION TO FACTORY JUNCTION
                         For Route SO250A Please see Sussex Timetable Planning Rules




4.3 Freight Wagon Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. The Route Availability for a given location is in the ‘Signalling and Remarks’ column of
Table A. Route Clearance Table D5 Route clearance of freight vehicles gives further guidance on freight wagon
restrictions.

Trains conveying vehicles that have a heavy axle weight or other exceptional characteristics, or vehicles
conveying containers or swap bodies require an RT3973 form.

Note: The Rule Book GERT8000 Section TW4 of defines a container as an intermodal transport unit constructed
to a standard (usually specified by the ISO) suitable for conveyance by road, rail or sea.

Note: The Sectional Appendix does not cover the HS1 route. The HS1 route has its own Working Manual.


4.4 Freight Train Load Limits
Trailing load limits for all traction types are contained in the Freight Loads Book published by Network Rail.

Note: It is important to understand the weight limitations that apply to trains especially over sections of heavily
graded routes. Coupling strength information is also contained in the Freight Loads Book. Coupling strength is
important in determining the trailing loads that trains can convey.


4.5 Freight Train Length Limits
Refer to the Freight Train Loads Book published by Network Rail for the length limits of freight trains.

Note: The Sectional Appendix quotes loop lengths in metres and feet. These are the absolute lengths of the loop
from the signal at the outlet to the fouling point at the entrance to the loop.




                                      Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
