 NETWORK RAIL                             Timetable Planning Rules                      Version: 4.1
 Kent & HS1                                                     OFFICIAL
                                        Final Proposal for Subsidiary                             25th August 2023
                                                                                        Date:
                                            Timetable 2024                              Page:      78 of 168



5.3 Junction Margins and Station Planning Rules

The definition for Junction Margins and Station Planning Rules is listed in Section 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8 of the National
TPRs.

All times shown are in minutes. Where adjustments to sectional running times are shown, the value must be added
to the normal SRTs shown in BPlan. Negative adjustments are specially identified.

Light Engine movements, postal and test trains to be treated as passenger trains when applying
margins/allowances where there is a freight/passenger difference.

Running brake tests must be carried out at the first opportunity after beginning a journey/crew change. These
allowances are not necessarily listed at individual timing points. Additional adjustment time to allow for running brake
tests should be agreed between the respective NR and Operator planner

Minimum station allowances are the minimum practical for the particular type of stock. These are shown with
exceptions being listed by line of route where applicable.

Peak is defined as services arriving in London (Blackfriars, Charing Cross, Cannon Street, Victoria or London Bridge)
between 0700 to 0959 SX and departing London (Blackfriars, Charing Cross, Cannon Street, Victoria or London
Bridge) between 1600 to 1859 SX.


 STANDARD VALUES – MINIMUM

 Additional Allowances
 All the additional allowances referred to in this section must be explicitly identified in the Working Timetable and on
 no account may they be consolidated into the basic point to point timing. It is essential to the efficient operation of
 the automatic route setting equipment as installed at Ashford Integrated Electronic Control Centre (IECC) that
 allowances are separated this way.

 Where a pathing allowance is required for a train that would also be provided with a performance allowance, the
 performance allowance may be consolidated into the pathing allowance except where mandated by Timetable
 Planning Rules. However, engineering allowances mandated by Timetable Planning Rules must be kept
 completely separate from and, where appropriate, additional to any other form of allowance.

 Adjustments to Sectional Running Times
 Movements                                                              Reason                      Value
 Approaching ALL Bays, Loops and Crossovers                             Approach Control            ½*
 Terminating trains arriving on half minutes in final timing link       Station working             ½
 *except where otherwise stated

 Trains originating on whole minutes
 Freight^ schedules must depart from origin on a whole minute. (This is due to IT systems requirements - ^TOPS)

 All allowances mentioned in the exceptions should be included in train times when approaching the listed timing
 point unless otherwise noted.

 Attachment of Units
 Standard                                                              4*
 * - At least ½ minute must be added to the schedule of the rear portion when approaching the front portion to
 attach
 Class 375/377/387 EMU                                                 4

                                       Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
