 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                      Version: 4.1
 Kent & HS1                                                    OFFICIAL
                                       Final Proposal for Subsidiary                             25th August 2023
                                                                                       Date:
                                          Timetable 2024                               Page:     3 of 168




1 Introduction and General Notes

Network Rail provide the Timetable Planning Rules document to Train Operators and other interested parties to set
out the rules which are applicable to Bids for scheduling of train paths on the Network Rail network. Separate
sections of Timetable Planning Rules are prepared for each Route with a National Timetable Planning Rules
document setting out procedures to be followed and other nationally applicable rules.

Network Rail will determine the contents of Timetable Planning Rules through consultation with Train Operators with
the primary aim of achieving the optimal balance between access to the network for train operations and
performance robustness of the resulting train plan. This consultation is in line with the Network Code Part D, and
Train Operators have a right of appeal to Timetabling Sub-Committee against the contents of the Final Timetable
Planning Rules.

Final Timetable Planning Rules are issued with timetable Bidding Information before the commencement of the
development period for the Principal Change timetable to which the Rules apply and cover a 12-month period.
Revised Timetable Planning Rules are issued with timetable Bidding Information before the commencement of the
Subsidiary Change timetable development period and show changes applicable to the Subsidiary Change timetable
period which have been agreed since the issue of the annual Timetable Planning Rules.

Timetable Planning Rules may be changed only through this twice-yearly process or by the change procedure
described in the National Timetable Planning Rules.

Train Operators’ Bids for train paths must be compliant with Timetable Planning Rules. If a Train Operator wishes to
submit a Bid for a train path which is not compliant with Timetable Planning Rules, it should consult the Network Rail
Operational Planning team to establish whether an amendment to Timetable Planning Rules is likely to be agreed
and, if appropriate, submit an amendment proposal which will be considered by Network Rail in accordance with the
Change Procedure set out in the National Timetable Planning Rules. The Timetable Planning Rules amendment
proposal should be submitted to Network Rail as early as possible and certainly no later than the time of submission
of the Bid. If the proposed change is likely to involve the calculation of new sectional running times or a physical
investigation then the Train Operator should liaise with the Operational Planning team to establish a realistic
timescale for evaluation of the proposed change before submission of the Bid.




                                      Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
