 NETWORK RAIL                             Timetable Planning Rules                        Version: 4.1
 London North Eastern                       Revised Final Rules for                         Date: 12 October 2023
                                       Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024                     Page: 81 of 368



5 Running Times, Margins and Allowances
Except where otherwise stated, the information in this section of the Timetable Planning Rules reflects the general
rules used in developing the 1994/5 timetable (Several exceptions to the general rules were agreed for 1994/5 and
exceptions may continue to be possible with the specific agreement of Network Rail in every case.)

5.1 Sectional Running Times
The definition for Sectional Running Times (SRTs) is listed in Section 6.4 of the National TPRs.

5.1.1 Source of Current SRTs
The definitive catalogue of SRTs is Bplan.

5.1.2 Method of Calculation
SRTs are revised by Train Operators and Network Rail as part of the Revision of Timetable Planning Rules process
outlined in Network Code Part D 2.2. Normally they will not change from one timetable to the next. Network Rail will,
however, re–calculate SRTs for particular train/route combinations in the following circumstances:

i) Where a Train Operator anticipates using a train/route combination for which no suitable SRTs exist;
ii) Where Network Rail anticipates a change to route data, e.g. line speed changes;
iii) Where there is evidence that the SRTs in current use do not adequately represent real train performance;
iv) Where it is cost–effective to re–calculate all SRTs on a route at the same time as a re–calculation for a particular
     train type.

     Network Rail will reflect the methodology and assumptions described in Section 6 of the National TPRs when
     calculating TPR proposals, unless and to the extent documented otherwise in respect of any given proposal.
     Timetable participants are encouraged to submit change proposals for review and consultation in line with the
     national methodology, or in line with such alternative methodology and assumptions as favoured by the proposer.
     NR will not seek to reject any proposal on the exclusive basis of the methodology employed, provided that the
     methodology and assumptions are clearly stated and demonstrably adhered to in respect of the proposal
     received.

SRT change proposals may be calculated in a number of ways including, but not limited to:

a)   Through actual timing of trains
b)   Use of On Train Monitoring Recorder (OTMR) systems
c)   Use of computer system actual values
d)   Use of computer simulation tools
e)   By any other agreed methodology

It is permissible to include percentage uplift in SRTs instead of applying engineering recovery allowances to be
agreed by all affected parties.

In the event that the application of different methodologies produces conflicting proposals, a joint observation
exercise should be undertaken to ascertain what happens in reality.

5.1.3 New and Revised Sectional Running Times
New and revised SRTs revised by Train Operators and Network Rail on an individual basis. These should be
supplied by applying the methodology described in Section 6 of the National TPRs unless another methodology is
deemed appropriate, provided that the methodology and assumptions are clearly stated and demonstrably adhered
to in respect of the proposal received.



                                      Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
