                                                 OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                 Version 4.0
National                                                                             Date: 28th July 2023
                                Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                            Page 32 of 114



Appendix G – Explanation of Working Timetable References

 For Passenger Operators -

 Abbreviations used for Days of the Week
 M     Monday
 T     Tuesday
 W     Wednesday
 TH    Thursday
 F     Friday
 S     Saturday
        For the above:-
        (I)       The addition of the letter “O” indicates that the train will run on that day or
                  those days only.
        (ii)      The addition of the letter “X” indicates that the train will not run on that day or
                  those days indicated.
 SUN Sunday

 Arrival Time References
      a       arrives 1 minute earlier.
      b       arrives 1½ minutes earlier.
      c       arrives 2 minutes earlier.
      d       arrives 2½ minutes earlier.
      e       arrives 3 minutes earlier.
      f       arrives 3½ minutes earlier.
      g       arrives 4 minutes earlier.
      h       arrives 4½ minutes earlier.
      j       arrives 5 minutes earlier.
      k       arrives 5½ or more minutes earlier (see explanatory note in column).
      n       see explanatory note in column.

 Abbreviations used to identify earlier departure times which are advertised in the National Rail
 Timetable.
      p       advertised 1-1½ minutes earlier departure.
      q       advertised 2-2½ minutes earlier departure.
      r       advertised 3-3½ minutes earlier departure.

 Abbreviations used to identify later arrival times which are advertised in the National Rail
 Timetable.
      v       advertised 1 minute later arrival.
      w       advertised 2 minutes later arrival.
      y       advertised 3 minutes later arrival
      z       advertised 4 minutes later arrival.
      ‡       advertised time in National Rail Timetable.




                             Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
