                                                   OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                    Version 4.0
National                                                                                Date: 28th July 2023
                                 Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                             Page 25 of 114

Appendix C - Access Proposals for Dated Trains
2.12 General Principles
 2.12.1 Limitations are necessary on the number of dated trains that can be included in the access planning
        and timetable production processes. A reasonable balance has to be struck between:

       (a)     the Access Proposals of Timetable Participants to Access Proposal for dated services;
       (b)     the needs of timetable users to be informed but still have a manageable document;
       (c)     the ability of Network Rail to manage the access planning and timetable production processes
               and the efficient maintenance and renewal of the rail network;
       (d)     the need for Timetable Participants’ customers to be fully informed of planned services
               available.

 2.12.2 NRT Policy Board has determined a number of guidelines for inclusion of dated trains within NRT and
        this procedure has been devised to enable Network Rail and Timetable Participants to observe those
        guidelines.

 2.12.3 A Timetable Participant may use the permanent timetable process to seek dated Train Slots in
        accordance with paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3 of this Appendix and Network Rail will develop such Train
        Slots unless it can reasonably demonstrate under the Decision Criteria that this would compromise
        the integrity of the access planning and timetable production process or would lead to an
        unmanageable timetable.

 2.12.4 If a Timetable Participant wishes to use the permanent timetable process to seek for dated Train
        Slots which are not in accordance with paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3 of this Appendix, it must obtain the
        prior agreement of Network Rail that those dated Train Slots will be published in NRT and/or the
        appropriate WTT. In giving or withholding this agreement, Network Rail will take into account the
        Decision Criteria and requirements (a), (b), (c) and (d) above.

 2.12.5 Network Rail will be required to use reasonable endeavours to plan engineering work so as to avoid
        the requirement for more than two variants per dayset for our RHTT.




2.13 Trains to be Published in Working Timetables

       (a)     Access Proposals for Passenger services which will be published in NRT and WTTs must
               comply with the requirements of Section 1 above.

       (b)     Access Proposals for services which will be published in WTTs only must match the daysets of
               each WTT table on which the train will appear, or must run in a standard Train Slot on at least
               4 related occasions within the currency of the WTTs except where specific exceptions have
               been agreed between a Timetable Participant and Network Rail.

       (c)     Access Proposals not complying with requirements (a) or (b) will be regarded as Variation
               Requests and will be dealt with by Network Rail in the Supplemental Period following the
               timetable iteration.

2.15 NRT Daysets
       See details in Route Timetable Planning Rules documents.



                               Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
