                                                    OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                      Version 4.0
National                                                                                  Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                Page 4 of 114

      1. Procedure for amending the Values in the Timetable
         Planning Rules
1.1      Abstract
 1.1.1    The purpose of this section is to set out clear principles and a robust methodology for determining
          Timetable Planning Rules (TPRs) when generating new or amended values for inclusion into route
          specific TPRs. This methodology should be used by Network Rail and Timetable Participants when
          proposing or supporting TPR changes, unless another methodology is deemed appropriate, agreed
          and documented by all parties concerned.

 1.1.2    The construction of a robust timetable needs to balance safety, capacity and performance
          expectations and the aspirations of all stakeholders involved, recognising that the application of
          these rules should provide for current and anticipated service levels, coming to a balanced decision
          using the Decision Criteria set out in D4.6 of the Network Code.

 1.1.3    Values generated by this methodology will be subject to procedures set out in condition D2.2 of the
          Network Code.

 1.1.4    A list of definitions is shown in Appendix G which contains the explanations of some of the
          terminology used in the TPRs.

1.2 Guiding Principles
 1.2.1    Where a deficiency in the delivery of the timetable has been identified, the problem understood and
          the deficiency concluded to be genuine, there are potential avenues to explore:

         (a) Review operational activities and driving policy standards;
         (b) Explore infrastructure interventions;
         (c) Carry out a TPR review;
         (d) Implement a Timetable change;
         (e) Maintain the status quo.

 1.2.2    In respect of proposed upwards revisions of TPR values, the aim should be to enhance operational
          delivery prior to altering TPR values. This approach must be agreed by the parties with defined
          outputs and delivery timescales, whereby all parties accept the risk of performance under-delivery in
          the interim as a result of delaying TPR change. All stakeholders are responsible for reviewing and
          optimising their own operational delivery performance.


 1.2.3    The impact of a TPR value change must be considered by all parties concerned and if deemed
          necessary, a timetable impact assessment undertaken.

 1.2.4    A timetable impact assessment may not be necessary in circumstances where TPR value reduction
          is proposed, but opportunities to improve the timetable should still be taken.

 1.2.5    All TPR change proposals must be considered in the context of any potential need to apply
          increased and decreased values together as part of an holistic improvement.

 1.2.6    TPR values, excluding Sectional Running Times (SRTs), can never be less than the technical value.
          The process for the generation of SRTs is covered in Section 1.4.

 1.2.7    Changes to individual TPRs will be supported by evidence showing how the values were developed.
          Sources of evidence are to be agreed by the affected parties.


                                Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
