                                                    OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                        Version 4.0
National                                                                                    Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                               Page 41 of 114
 3.4.1    This Procedure has been devised in accordance with Network Code Condition D 3.4.3 to provide a
          means of altering Engineering Access Statement and/or Timetable Planning Rules other than
          through the twice-yearly process having effect from the Passenger Change Dates. It supersedes
          the interim arrangements included within certain Train Operators’ Track Access Agreements and
          within certain Regional Engineering Access Statement and Timetable Planning Rules documents.

 3.4.2    This procedure will be used by Network Rail to add, substitute or delete engineering access
          opportunities contained within the Engineering Access Statement. All possessions so agreed will
          be regarded as being within the Engineering Access Statement. Network Rail is committed to the
          achievement of the Informed Traveller deadlines resulting in details of amended train services being
          available 12 weeks before the date of operation. Consequently, wherever possible, Network Rail will
          consult with Timetable Participants regarding possessions and other capacity restrictions which are
          disruptive to agreed train slots in sufficient time to allow details of those disruptive possessions to
          be included in a Confirmed Period Possessions Plan which will be published 26 weeks prior to the
          start of each 4-week period.

 3.4.3    Where a need arises to amend the Engineering Access Statement/Timetable Planning Rules to
          cater for urgent safety requirements or other emergency situations, all parties concerned will co-
          operate in accelerating the normal timescales in this Procedure commensurate with the urgency of
          the circumstances.

 3.4.4    Changes Initiated by Timetable Participants

3.4.4.1   A Timetable Participant may propose changes to any part of Engineering Access
          Statement/Timetable Planning Rules affecting or likely to affect that Timetable Participants.

3.4.4.2   The Timetable Participant shall submit a written statement of the proposed change and a concise
          explanation of the reasons for that change.

3.4.4.3   for Timetable Planning Rules, to its Network Rail Operational Planning Project Manager (LTP) who
          will acknowledge receipt.

3.4.4.4   For Engineering Access Statement, to the Engineering Access Planning Manager who will
          acknowledge receipt.

3.4.4.5   Within 10 working days of receipt of the proposed change, Network Rail shall notify all Timetable
          Participants affected with details of the proposed change and Network Rail’s comments including
          concise reasons for the change and a statement as to whether Network Rail supports the proposal.

 3.4.5    Changes Initiated by Network Rail

3.4.5.1   Network Rail may propose changes to any part of the Engineering Access Statement/Timetable
          Planning Rules.

3.4.5.2   Network Rail shall notify to all Train Operators affected details of the proposed change including a
          concise explanation of its reasons. Proposed changes to Engineering Access Statement shall be
          notified by Network Rail individually by email.




                               Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
