                                                     OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                         Version 4.0
National                                                                                     Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                Page 40 of 114
         (c) Network Rail shall specify a reasonable period in which the revised Access Proposal must be
             provided, and in any event the revised Access Proposal shall be submitted no later than TW-18.

 3.2.7    Network Rail may modify, accept or reject a revised Access Proposal and where it modifies or
          rejects any revised Access Proposal, it must provide written reasons for its decision.

 3.2.8    Where a revised Access Proposal has not been submitted by a Timetable Participant as required by
          Network Rail, Network Rail shall be entitled to make a Network Rail Variation of any Train Slot in
          respect of which the revised Access Proposal was required and no appeal may be made in respect
          of Network Rail’s decision.

 3.2.9    Not later than TW-14, Network Rail shall notify all Timetable Participants of its decision in respect of
          Network Rail Variations.

 3.2.10 Not later than TW-13, any Timetable Participant affected by Network Rail’s decision shall inform
        Network Rail whether it accepts or disputes that decision.

 3.2.11 At TW-12, Network Rail shall record and provide to all Timetable Participants, the Network Rail
        Variations to be made.

 3.2.12 Any Timetable Participant which is dissatisfied with any final decision of Network Rail in respect of a
        Network Rail Variation may appeal against it in accordance with Condition D5. Following resolution
        of appeals, Network Rail will advise all affected Timetable Participants of any further changes to the
        amended timetable as soon as practicable.

 3.2.13 Accepted Train Slots will be loaded into TRUST by Network Rail. It is Network Rail’s intention that
        TRUST for each TW should hold correct details for all advertised passenger services (apart from
        consequences of outstanding appeals) 12 weeks before the start of that Timetable Week.

3.3 Network Rail Variations with less than 12 Weeks Notice
 3.3.1    It may be necessary for Restrictions of Use to be arranged by Network Rail with less than 12 weeks
          notice, Network Rail shall follow the procedures set out in section 2.2. Except that Network Rail is
          permitted to prescribe such time periods for each step that are reasonably practicable in the
          circumstances. Network Rail shall notify all affected Timetable Participants of its final decision in
          respect of any such change as soon as reasonably practicable.

 3.3.2    Any Timetable Participant which is dissatisfied with any final decision of Network Rail in respect of a
          Network Rail Variation made pursuant to this section may appeal in accordance with Network Code
          Condition D5.

 3.3.3    The amended timetable will be accompanied by a written commentary to assist Timetable
          Participants in identifying changes from the permanent timetable and any flexing or rejection of
          Revised Access Proposals.

 3.3.4    Following resolution of appeals, Network Rail will advise all affected Timetable Participants of any
          further changes to the amended timetable as soon as practicable.

 3.3.5    Accepted Train Slots will be loaded into TRUST by Network Rail. It is Network Rail’s intention that
          TRUST for each Timetable Week should hold correct details for all advertised passenger services
          (apart from consequences of outstanding appeals) 12 weeks before the start of that TW.

3.4 Change Procedure
Procedure for Altering Engineering Access Statement or Timetable Planning Rules other than through
the Twice-Yearly Process Having Effect from a Passenger Change Date


                                Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
