                                                    OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                        Version 4.0
National                                                                                    Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                               Page 39 of 114

3 Timetable Planning Process - Short Term Planning
3.1 Introduction
 3.1.1    This section describes the process to be followed to enable agreement between Network Rail and
          Timetable Participants of short term amendments to the Permanent Timetable.

 3.1.2    The timetable planning process for short term planning is governed by Part D of the Network Code
          (last amended on 27th July 2021). In the event of a conflict, the Network Code takes precedence
          over Track Access Agreements with individual Timetable Participants and the Engineering Access
          Statement / Timetable Planning Rules.

 3.1.3    Network Rail Timetable Variations are planned by Network Rail on a week by week basis. Each
          week of a Working Timetable is referred to as a “Timetable Week” (TW). Each Timetable Week
          commences at 00:01 on a Saturday and expires at 24:00 on the following Friday. The sequence of
          events by which variations are finalised is designated by a series of milestone dates and steps, all
          of which refer to a week in the period prior to the commencement of TW. So, for example, “TW
          minus 12” (or “TW-12”) refers to the 12th week prior to the start of a given TW. Where in this Part D
          any step or event is required or stated to occur by any week designated in this way, it must occur no
          later than 5pm on Friday of the preceding week. So, for example, a step which is required to occur
          no later than “TW-12” must occur no later than:

         (a) 5pm on Friday;

         (b) in the week commencing on the Sunday which occurs 13 weeks prior to the commencement of
             week TW.

 3.1.4    Not later than D-26, Network Rail shall provide to all Timetable Participants a calendar pertaining to
          each TW, showing the milestone dates which will apply (pursuant to this Condition D3) to the
          planning of all Timetable Variations in respect of that TW.

3.2 Weekly Train Plan – Network Rail Variations with at least 12 Weeks
    Notice
 3.2.1    Network Rail is entitled to make a variation to the Working Timetable when the Network Rail
          Variation is for the purpose of taking Restrictions of Use which are consistent with the Rules, or as
          amended in accordance with the procedure shown in Condition D3.4.3

 3.2.2    Network Rail must consult with all Timetable Participants likely to be affected by the amendment.

 3.2.3    By TW-30 Network Rail will provide its proposals for Restrictions of Use in respect of the
          corresponding TW to Timetable Participants.

 3.2.4    After TW-30 but by TW-26, Network Rail shall consult with each Timetable Participant affected by
          the Restrictions of Use proposed and shall seek to agree all Network Rail Variations to be made.

 3.2.5    To facilitate the planning of any Network Rail Variation, Network Rail may require that any
          Timetable Participant shall submit a revised Access Proposal in respect of any Train Slot.

 3.2.6    Where Network Rail requires a revised Access Proposal:

         (a) the requirement must be notified to the affected Timetable Participant no later than TW-22;

         (b) Network Rail shall specify the aspects of the Access Proposal which need to be revised and its
             reasons for this;

                                Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
