                                                     OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                      Version 4.0
National                                                                                  Date: 28th July 2023
                                   Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                               Page 19 of 114
1.13 Designations and Terminology in the Timetable Planning Rules
 1.13.1 The use of Z as the second character is prohibited for WTT services. It is for use only by Special
        Traffic Trains and STP additional trains not conforming to any route code.

 1.13.2 To assist with understanding of the Route documents, exceptions to the standard Rules will be in the
        order listed in 1.13.4.

 1.13.3
          #       Freight exception (1)
          $       Freight exception (2)
          %       Passenger exception (1)
          &       Passenger exception (2)
          *       General/misc. exception (1)
          ^       General/misc. exception (2)

          Any subsequent exceptions are denoted by doubling up the symbol e.g. General exception (3) is **, (4)
          is ^^ and so on.

 1.13.4    Timing Allowances – definitions and usage –
1.13.4.1 Engineering Allowance – allowance added to schedules to accommodate planned speed restrictions.
         This allowance is required to compensate for loss of speed and the resultant increase in running time
         in a section. Engineering time is stated in the Route Timetable Planning Rules document and
         reviewed in conjunction with Network Rail Route Access Planning.

1.13.4.2 Pathing Allowance – allowance added to a schedule to compensate for an increase in running time in
         a section due to the service sighting a signal aspect that would prevent it from meeting its SRT and to
         meet applicable Timetable Planning Rules.

1.13.4.3 Adjustment Allowance –allowance is used where train will be performing a move that
           means it will be unable to meet its SRT for that section. For example, where the
           SRT is based on the fastest route:
                 •  Reducing speed for a slow speed junction.
                 •  Restrictive signalling approaching a junction (including flashing signal aspects and
                    approach control)
                 • Acceleration to prevailing line speed when joining from a slow speed junction.
           Adjustment allowances are documented in Section 5.3 of the relevant route Timetable Planning
           Rules

1.13.4.4 Performance Allowance – allowance added to a schedule to account for anticipated time loss across
         sections of a journey. These may be documented in the Route Timetable Planning Rules.




                                 Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
