                                                      OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                          Version 4.0
National                                                                                      Date: 28th July 2023
                                    Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                 Page 46 of 114

6 Procedure for Amending or Withdrawing a Possessions
  Strategy Notice
6.1 Introduction
    6.1.1      This Procedure has been devised in accordance with Network Code Condition D 6.7.1 to provide
               a means of amending or withdrawing a Possessions Strategy Notice (PSN).

    6.1.2      This procedure will be used by Network Rail to add, amend, substitute or delete items contained
               within a previously-issued PSN or to withdraw a PSN in its entirety.

    6.1.3      Possessions and other Restrictions of Use agreed through the PSN process, including any
               changes agreed in accordance with this Procedure will be incorporated into the development
               process for the Engineering Access Statement for the relevant year and may be subject to
               further change, including addition of further details, as part of that process. Consequently no
               changes to any part of a PSN will be issued after the issue of the Engineering Access Statement
               Preliminary Proposal (Version 1) for the corresponding year.

6.2 Proposal of Changes
    6.2.1      Network Rail may propose changes to any part of any PSN or may propose the withdrawal of a
               previously-issued PSN.

    6.2.2      Network Rail shall notify to all Timetable Participants affected details of the proposed change
               including an explanation of its reasons. This notification will be issued by the Engineering Access
               Planning Manager.

6.3 Response by Timetable Participants
    6.3.1      Each Timetable Participant receiving notification of a proposed change in accordance with
               paragraph 6.2.2 above will consider that proposal and respond to Network Rail within 20
               Working Days from receipt of the notification, indicating:

               (i) its agreement to the proposed change or
               (ii) details of a counter-proposal and an explanation of its reasons or
               (iii)a request that the response deadline should be extended and an explanation of its reasons.

    6.3.2      Any Timetable Participant whose response is not received by Network Rail within 20 Working
               Days will be deemed to have agreed to the proposed change and will forfeit any right of Appeal.

6.4 Decision by Network Rail
    6.4.1      Network Rail shall give due consideration to responses received from Timetable Participants and
               shall decide which changes, if any, should be made to the relevant PSN.

    6.4.2      In reaching its decision, Network Rail shall have due regard to the Decision Criteria in Network
               Code Condition D4.6.

    6.4.3      Network Rail will notify its decision to each affected Timetable Participant within 10 Working
               Days of the last date for receipt of responses.

    6.4.4      If Network Rail decides to accept a request to extend the response deadline, it will notify that
               decision to each affected Timetable Participant in and will notify its decision on the substance of
               the change within 10 Working Days of the revised response date.
                                 Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
