                                                        OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                            Version 4.0
National                                                                                        Date: 28th July 2023
                                    Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                   Page 14 of 114
   •     System reset time (normally 4s); plus
   •     Time taken for the second train to see the signal approaching the timing point or point before ETCS
         indication to reduce speed due to the first train to arriving at the timing point, such that it can meet its
         SRTs, and it arriving at the timing point

 1.7.6       The total will rounded as to the next half-minute above to form the planning value, plus a
             performance uplift as required.

 1.7.7       Relevant combinations of types of train, as agreed with stakeholders, will be considered when
             calculating Platform Reoccupation.


1.8 Station Dwell Times
 1.8.1       The values listed in Section 5.3 of the TPR are Junction Margins and Station Planning Rules.

 1.8.2       Station Dwell Times are the minimum time shown in timetables for trains to be at a stand in a
             station, from when train wheels stop on arrival to when wheels start on departure.

 1.8.3       It includes time for doors to be released open, for passengers to leave and join the train, doors to be
             confirmed shut and for the train to be dispatched.

 1.8.4       A station dwell includes time for doors to be released open, for passengers to leave and join the
             train, doors to be confirmed shut and for the train to be dispatched and will reflect:

         •     Time of day
         •     Loading patterns
         •     Rolling stock
         •     Station staffing arrangements
         •     Attaching and detaching
         •     Catering
         •     Crew changes
         •     Miscellaneous operational instructions
         •     Direction of travel


 1.8.5       Dwell time should take account of local operational railway characteristics. and should be reviewed
             regularly to account for any changes to these.

 1.8.6       To propose a rounded value for a station dwell, a measured value should first be established using
             the mean value from a data source. The measured value should take into consideration all relevant
             variables listed in 1.1.3 and should be calculated to the second.

 1.8.7       To maintain rounded dwell times closely to the measured values, cumulative rounding should be
             used. Rounded dwell times should be sufficient across a section of route to meet or exceed
             cumulative measured values.

 1.8.8       Where the cumulative measured dwell time exceeds the planned dwell time by 15-seconds or more,
             that dwell should be rounded up to the next 30-second increment and the cumulative count reset to
             zero, subject to 1.8.9 – 1.8.13 below.

 1.8.9       If the cumulative value is 14 secs or less, but the measured dwell at a single location is 15-secs or
             more over the planned dwell, the measured value should be rounded up to the next 30-second
             increment and the cumulative count reset to zero, subject to 1.1.9 – 1.1.13 below.




                                  Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
