                                                     OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                          Version 4.0
National                                                                                      Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                Page 10 of 114
    •   Following a non-stop train at a timing point;
    •   Following a train stopping at a timing point; and
    •   Stopping pattern

This should be done in order to provide a reasonable level of granularity to Planning Headways to best
balance capacity and performance and to avoid excessive complication.




1.5.4 “Stopping” headways
As referenced in 1.5.3 above, it may be relevant to provide differential headways when following a train that
has stopped at a timing point, or will stop before the next common timing point, as it will clearly take a
departing train longer to clear the relevant signal sections than a non-stop train of similar performance.

These situations will result in a “stopping” headway, as opposed to a “non-stop” headway.

In terms of Technical Headway, this would be calculated as per the non-stop headway but also adding the
difference between the relevant technical pass-to-pass and start-to-pass run times (the “starting allowance”).

For example, at Hayward’s Heath, the Technical Headway (non-stop) on the Up Fast line would be:

Signal T340: clearance 744+946+1009+200+240=3139m
78s at 90mph for a 240m train
91s including reset time and sighting
104m offset for station mileage cf. signal mileage = 3s at 90mph
Total 94s

Technical SRT to Balcombe Tunnel Jn (theoretical) = 4m24s p/p and 5m30s s/p
Starting allowance is therefore 66s. Technical stopping headway is therefore 94+66s = 160s, which would
likely round up to 3 minutes as a minimum Planning Headway.

However, care must be taken if there are intermediate stations (or indeed any other point at which a train is
likely to stop) within the distance over which a signal would clear to green. In Diagram C on page 8, GPU105
signal will not clear to green until the rear of the previous train has cleared the overlap of GPL103. Hence if a
train has stopped at a station adjacent to GPL103 the non-stop Technical Headway would be extended by the
additional time taken for the first train to stop at the platform, its dwell time and the additional time taken for
acceleration until its rear is clear of the overlap or supervised location (ETCS).

Additional Planning Headways should be produced where there are clear differences in stopping pattern to
reflect the regular scenarios. It should be noted that a variation in planned dwell time will clearly affect the
applicable Planning Headway, such that headways cannot be seen in isolation from dwell times let alone any
performance differential between various types of rolling stock.

1.5.5 Application of Planning Headways
Where different Planning Headways are provided when following stopping and non-stop trains their
application should be made as follows:

  The below are the minimum headways applicable, and do not account for any differential that should apply.
                       These apply where there are applicable numerical headways
First                                                    Second train
train ↓              Arrive                                   Pass                   Depart
         Arrive      n/a*                                     n/a†                   n/a
         Pass        Platform Reocc.                          Non-stop               Non-stop
         Depart      Platform Reocc.                          Stopping               Stopping

* Depends on departure time of first train plus Platform Reoccupation
                             Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
