                                                 OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                     Version 4.0
National                                                                                 Date: 28th July 2023
                               Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                            Page 48 of 114

Appendix H – List of Definitions
Term                       Definition
Bplan                      Electronic repository for train planning geography values. These values
                           include: Tiplocs, Network links, SRTs/Timing links, valid platform numbers
                           and codes.

Conditional Timing Point   Conditional timing points only need to be used when a particular activity
                           takes place at those locations. Allowances (e.g. acceleration, deceleration
                           and approach control) should be included in SRTs where this represents
                           the fastest possible SRT for the Network Link.

Cumulative Rounding        Throughout the course of a journey timings for SRTs and dwells will need
                           rounding to ensure that the cumulative technical time for a section and the
                           cumulative SRT + dwell time for a section are balanced and do not usually
                           diverge by more than ±15 seconds.

Decision Criteria          Where Network Rail is required to decide any matter in this Part D its
                           objective shall be to share capacity on the Network for the safe carriage of
                           passengers and goods in the most efficient and economical manner in the
                           overall interest of current and prospective users and providers of railway
                           services (“the Objective”).

                           In achieving the Objective, Network Rail shall apply any or all of the
                           considerations in paragraphs (a)-(k) below (“the Considerations”) in
                           accordance with Condition D4.6.3 below:

                           (a) maintaining, developing and improving the capability of the Network;
                           (b) that the spread of services reflects demand;
                           (c) maintaining and improving train service performance;
                           (d) that journey times are as short as reasonably possible;
                           (e) maintaining and improving an integrated system of transport for
                               passengers and goods;
                           (f) the commercial interests of Network Rail (apart from the terms of any
                               maintenance contract entered into or proposed by Network Rail) or any
                               Timetable Participant of which Network Rail is aware;
                           (g) seeking consistency with any relevant Route Utilisation Strategy;
                           (h) that, as far as possible, International Paths included in the New
                               Working Timetable at D-48 are not subsequently changed;
                           (i) mitigating the effect on the environment;
                           (j) enabling operators of trains to utilise their assets efficiently; and
                           (k) avoiding changes, as far as possible, to a Strategic Train Slot other
                               than changes which are consistent with the intended purpose of the
                               Strategic Path to which the Strategic Train Slot relates; and
                           (l) avoiding a change to any International Freight Train Slot included in
                               part B of an International Freight Capacity Notice shall be changed

Engineering Recovery       Additional time included in train schedules to cover the impact of planned
Allowance                  temporary speed restrictions associated with engineering works on the
                           network.

Junction Margin            The minimum permissible time interval between two trains that are
                           performing conflicting moves at a timing point. This is expressed in
                           multiples of half minutes derived from the technical value expressed in
                           seconds.

Mandatory Timing Point     Mandatory timing points are generally major junctions and stations, TRUST
                           points, and locations where trains start and terminate. Other locations may
                           be defined as mandatory to assist planning and train reporting, but care
                            Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
