                                                    OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                        Version 4.0
National                                                                                    Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                Page 5 of 114
 1.2.8    Supporting information must be stored in a format accessible to Network Rail and Timetable
          Participants. Such information must be made available when requested.

 1.2.9    TPR values for Headways and Junction Margins shall always include rules based on the application
          of the least restrictive aspect the signalling system can show.

 1.2.10 Where the actual operation of the Railway allows, equivalent TPR values for Headways and
        Junction Margins may be developed giving consideration to restrictive signalling aspects. Such
        values may not exist as the exclusive rule, and must always include allowances that reflect the
        impact on the SRT of trains operating on restrictive aspects. These restrictive aspect rules and
        allowances cannot be applied independently as they comprise a single rule.

 1.2.11 Any rule that is not predicated on the basis of the signalling system showing the least restrictive
        aspect must be clearly identified as a restrictive aspect rule in order that Network Rail and
        Timetable Participants fully appreciate the operational implications of adoption of that rule.

 1.2.12 A process of rounding will apply to all technical values generated through this methodology in order
        to express planning values in multiples of half minutes and be compatible with downstream
        systems.

1.3 Procedure for Amending TPRs
 1.3.1    When producing TPR change proposals, Network Rail and/or the Timetable Participant will set out
          why the change is proposed, and the planned date for implementation.

 1.3.2    The proposal will consist of:

         (a) A proposal number, provided by the appropriate Network Rail TPR forum

         (b) Source data and assumptions for both infrastructure and rolling stock

         (c) Supporting evidence as agreed by Network Rail and affected parties

         (d) Outputs from the simulation model or other methodology, Technical values, planning values, and
             any rounding applied expressed in seconds and/or %age uplift

         (e) Network Rail will consult in accordance with the Network Code

         (f) Network Rail will document responses and decisions taken on implementation or otherwise, so
             that each TPR entry has an audit trail


1.4 Sectional Running Times
 1.4.1    Sectional Running Times are referred to in Section 5.1 of the TPR.

 1.4.2    A Sectional Running Time is the time taken for various train types (Timing Loads) to traverse a
          Network Link, representing the fastest route of that Network Link.

 1.4.3    All SRTs are compiled individually by:

         (a) Direction of travel

         (b) Each track on multiple lines

         (c) Optimal performance possible for line and rolling stock, including acceleration or deceleration
             impact as appropriate
                               Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
