                                                        OFFICIAL


     Network Rail                                                                                   Version 4.0
     National                                                                               Date: 28th July 2023
                                        Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                    Page 113 of 114
     •       Data may need to be narrowed down to build a fuller picture of where the source issue is with
             dwell adherence. Dwell time variances can exist for certain types of day, direction of travel, or
             day of the week. Details of the main variances are included in 1.1.3 of the associated rounding
             methodology.

     •       Equally, to find the root cause of a poor performing station dwell it may be necessary to broaden
             the data analysis. A poor performing dwell could be linked to incorrect SRTs on a line of route,
             or, over-dwelling due to waiting for a path at a proceeding junction. This, together with the
             cumulative rounding stipulated in the rounding methodology supports a holistic review of TPR
             values and performance information, rather than looking at single dwells in isolation.

Consultation
Consulting means relevant persons are kept informed on plans and progress. To effectively consult a
station dwell review, the following activities should be completed:

         •     The data that is used to prompt the review should be shared with all impacted parties.

         •     Any supporting or contradicting data that is held by the affected parties should be shared to
               provide comparison. The data sources that are used for the review are agreed.

         •     A project plan with dates for reviewing and making decisions should be agreed.

         •     Progress is reported against the plan as an agenda item at relevant route TPR forums.

         •     Any decision that is made should be issued accompanied with supporting data and reasoning.

         •     Any decisions that are made should be cognisant of how the change will be implemented, and
               an implementation plan will be made with affected Operators (this could include phased
               implementation).


The process flow chart on the next page provides a high-level summary of the activities that should take
place during a station dwell review




                                      Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
