                                                     OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                         Version 4.0
National                                                                                     Date: 28th July 2023
                             Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                           Page 9 of 114
Distance GPU105 to GPU103 (2222m)
+
Overlap of GPU103 (251m)
+
Train length (120m)
=
Total 2593m

2593m at 40mph takes 145s, to which we need to add 4s reset time, giving 149s.

On the assumption that the second train were also able to maintain 40mph, we now need to calculate the time
taken from GPU105R to GPU105 – this is 794m, which would take 45s, then add 9s for sighting. This would
give a Technical Headway of 149+45+9 = 203 in this example.

Generally, in areas of 2-aspect signalling it may be better to plan as Absolute Block, although it is noted that
there are some areas where 3 or 4 aspect signalling also requires Absolute Block planning.


Variability
Obviously not all trains will maintain a constant speed as shown in the examples above, so when deducing
technical headways the actual time taken in section should be assumed from modelling or from observation.
In the case of modelling, care should be taken that traction parameters are agreed and reflective of traction
operating in the sectionn. In the case of observed measurements, care should be taken that the data used is
representative of the scenario being calculated and is within reasonable expectation.

In some instances, it will not be necessary to make a calculation based on least restrictive signals, if the
relevant SRTs can still be met by not doing so. Examples of this may include approach-controlled signalling
arrangements, where the signalling is not capable of showing green aspects, or where signal spacing is
greater than the minimum necessary to the extent that trains do not need to immediately decelerate on seeing
restrictive aspects. In these cases, the above calculations may be adjusted to reflect reality and produce a
Technical Headway that is lower than would otherwise be the case.

Where performance of trains is not uniform, it will not be possible to deduce a single figure. Multiple
scenarios should then be calculated to reflect the performance of the most common train types and the
interactions between them in order to inform the Planning Headway (see below).

1.5.2 Signalling Headway
This is a measure typically used by signalling designers, and broadly corresponds to the examples above,
and will assume a type of train most likely to use a route that is best capable of maintaining the line speed
profile.


1.5.3 Planning Headway
Having made appropriate calculations of the Technical Headway, the Planning Headway should then be
deduced by rounding up the Technical Headway to the next half minute above. A further half minute, or more
where required, should be assumed if it is agreed that it is necessary to achieve the desired level of
performance. The examples above show the calculation of the Technical Headway at specific signals.
Naturally most timing points are not at signals so an appropriate adjustment should be made to reflect the
headway at the actual timing point, be that the nominal station mileage or actual stopping points.

The values listed in Section 5.2 of TPRs are Planning Headways.

Where significant performance differentials exist, Planning Headways shall be created for different
combinations of:
   • Train type (including weight, length and speed);

                                Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
