                                               OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                    Version 4.0
National                                                                                Date: 28th July 2023
                             Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                            Page 49 of 114
                         should be taken to avoid timing points that are close together as this will
                         complicate the planning process. Where timing points are closely spaced,
                         additional care is needed to ensure that allowances for acceleration,
                         deceleration and pathing/engineering/performance are correct.

Network Link             These link timing points to form a planning geography network which
                         allows various planning systems to function. Where multiple running lines
                         exist, more than one network link may exist between two timing points. The
                         line codes to be used are shown in TPR section 2.1 alongside planning
                         locations, and the codes to be used should match the Sectional Appendix
                         line names as closely as possible. Network Links are formed between two
                         tiplocs, but should never extend past a mandatory timing point, with the
                         exception of links created for planning rail replacement bus services.

Planning Headway         The minimum planned time interval between two successive train
                         schedules at a specific timing point on the same line in the same direction,
                         such that the second train can meet its SRT. This is expressed in multiples
                         of half minutes and is derived from the technical headway rounded to at
                         least the next half minute or above by agreement.

Platform Reoccupation    The time between first train departing and second train arriving at a
                         specific platform in the same direction; this commonly defaults to, but
                         should never exceed the applicable headway. This value need not be
                         calculated on the least restrictive signal aspect, but the second train in the
                         sequence must be able to meet its SRTs.

Run-round Time           The minimum time between arrival and departure at a timing point when a
                         locomotive or locomotives are moved from one end of a train to the other,
                         including detachment, movement, attachment and safety checks.

Sectional Running Time   Time taken for various train types (Timing Loads) to traverse a Network
(SRT) / Timing Link      Link, representing the fastest route of that Network Link.


Signalling Headway       The minimum time permissible between two successive trains at a specific
                         signal on the same line in the same direction based on the best performing
                         trains using the route.

Superlinks               A train schedule cannot be published in TRUST with more than 150
                         TIPLOCs. Any schedule requiring more than 150 TIPLOCs will need to be
                         split into two schedules or will need to have certain Timing Points removed.

                         See Section 2.1 Planning Geography for TIPLOCs that can be removed.

                         Examples of 150 TIPLOC schedules are CrossCountry’s services from
                         Penzance to destinations beyond Edinburgh (typically Glasgow Central,
                         Dundee or Aberdeen) in both directions.

Stanox                   Tiplocs are linked to stanoxes for TOPS reporting purposes. These are
                         numeric location codes of 5 digits. More than one tiploc may be linked to a
                         stanox, but not the other way around. Each stanox is assigned to a TRA
                         (TOPS reporting area) which is specific to a TOC, FOC or Network Rail.
                          This means that for effective TOPS reporting, one location may have
                         multiple stanoxes and tiplocs particular to each FOC.

Station Dwell Time       The minimum time shown in timetables for trains to be at a stand in a
                         station, from when train wheels stop on arrival to when wheels start on
                         departure.

Technical Headway        The minimum permissible time interval between two successive trains at a
                          Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
