                                                       OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                           Version 4.0
National                                                                                       Date: 28th July 2023
                                    Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                Page 20 of 114

2 Timetable Planning Process - Permanent Timetable
2.1 Introduction
This section outlines information and further detail to assist with Timetable Planning in addition to that stated in
the Network Code Part D. The Network Code can be found at –
https://www.networkrail.co.uk/industry-and-commercial/information-for-operators/



2.2 Prior Working Timetable
 2.2.1    Network Rail will establish a Prior Working Timetable database in ITPS at D-45. This will be based on
          the previous Working Timetable published at D-26 in the timeline for the previous Working Timetable.

 2.2.2    Network Rail acting reasonably and if appropriate in consultation with Timetable Participants can
          decide that it will delete Train Slots from the Prior Working Timetable. This is if the Timetable
          Participant does not have existing rights or will not hold firm rights to the Train Slot by the time the
          New Working Timetable starts.

 2.2.3    As a result of the appeals process for the Previous Working Timetable Network Rail may amend the
          Prior Working Timetable.

 2.2.4    The Prior Working Timetable will be transmitted to Timetable Participants through the Timetable
          Participants access to ITPS and by distribution as a PIF file.

2.3 Specialised and Congested Infrastructure
 2.3.1    Regulations 22 and 23 of The Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005
          provide for the declaration, by Infrastructure Managers (in this context, Network Rail), of infrastructure
          (a) to which they wish to apply special rules for capacity allocation or (b) believe congested to the
          extent that additional capacity requests cannot be catered for. Such declarations will be made via the
          Network Statement. Where any special rules are to be applied they will also be contained in this
          document.

2.4 Strategic Capacity
 2.4.1    In accordance with the Management of Strategic Capacity on the Network Code of Practice, Network
          Rail will publish the Strategic Capacity Statement which is relevant to the preparation of the New
          Working Timetable no later than D-55 showing a list of Strategic Train Slots it intends to include in the
          Working Timetable.

 2.4.2    Strategic Train Slots have the notation ‘QJ’ or “QP” after the train ID.

 2.4.3 The document can be found on the Network Rail website -
    https://www.networkrail.co.uk/industry-and-commercial/information-for-operators/ [section titled
    ‘Operational Rules (EAS-TPRs)’]




                                 Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
