                                                      OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                           Version 4.0
National                                                                                       Date: 28th July 2023
                                 Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                                 Page 11 of 114
† Depends on departure time of first train plus stopping headway

Applicable Platform Reoccupation values can be found in the relevant section 5.3 of the TPRs. Where no
Platform Reoccupation value is quoted then the applicable non-stop headway should be applied.

The above table assumes use of the same platform. The same should apply where different platforms are
available, excepting that separate margins for diverging or converging movements may apply and Platform
Reoccupation is only relevant where the same platform is being used. Consecutive arrivals on different
platforms from the same line should be planned as per the non-stop headway unless other rules are
specified.


1.5.6 Diverging or Converging Movements
In circumstances where trains diverge (pass or depart from one common line to different lines) or converge
(arrive or pass from different lines to one common line) then different margins may apply. Any such
differences will be shown as junction margins in Section 5.3 of TPRs. If there is no specific converging or
diverging margin then headway must be applied.


1.5.7 Absolute Block and Track Circuit Block Headways
Absolute Block is a signalling system that allows only one train to be in a block section at the same time. The
block indicator is used to indicate whether the line between adjacent signal boxes is clear or occupied

Timetable Planning Rules must always state whether an Absolute Block section is inclusive or exclusive of
the timing point.

Within the Timetable Planinng Rules, AB indicates locations where absolute block signalling applies. Here the
headway is to be calculated from the transit time of the first of each pair of trains running between the stated
timing points. A value “x” shall be added to the transit time to allow for the signaller’s actions and sighting of
the relevant signal. The planning headway is shown as “AB+x”.

AB methodology may also be used to express the headway in other areas (e.g. Track Circuit Block), the value
“x” including the time taken to reset the route, clear the signal on entry to the section and sight the relevant
signal.

Track Circuit Block is defined as a method of signalling trains in a section of line using track circuits or other
means of automatic train absence detection and without using block instruments.

For the purposes of Timetable Planning, the headways section will only contain numeric values or Absolute
Block values – Track Circuit Block may be referenced in the notes but will have a planning value of ‘AB+x’.


Default planning of Absolute Block and Track Circuit Block sections require Train A to have passed/departed
the block before train B can enter/stop within the block (ie. section is inclusive of timing points), unless
otherwise stated as exclusive.




                                 Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
