                                                      OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                         Version 4.0
National                                                                                     Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                              Page 21 of 114

2.5 Calendar of Events
 2.5.1   In accordance with the Network Code, Network Rail will publish a Calendar of events setting out a
         period of at least 4 years showing events which are likely to require significant changes to the
         Working Timetable in a future bi-annual timetable revision process.

 2.5.2   Unless specified, for each listed Event an Events Steering Group will be set up consisting of
         representatives from Network Rail, relevant funders and any affected Timetable Participants

 2.5.3   The document can be found on the Network Rail website -

    https://www.networkrail.co.uk/industry-and-commercial/information-for-operators/ [section titled
    ‘Operational Rules (EAS-TPRs)’]

2.6 Priority Date Access Proposals
 2.6.1   Access Proposals are to be sent the Lead Operational Planning Project Manager (LTP) for each
         Timetable Participant is shown in Appendix B. Network Rail will provide a template document for
         Timetable Participants to use.

 2.6.2   Managed Station Opening Hours are shown in Appendix F. These are now included to assist
         Timetable Participants plan their early morning / late night services.

2.7 Finalisation of the New Working Timetable
 2.7.1   Network Rail will provide Timetable Participants with access to the evolving timetable plan through
         access to ITPS. It is anticipated that there will be frequent bilateral and multilateral dialogue during
         the finalisation process to eliminate errors and omissions.

 2.7.2   At D-26 Network Rail will publish the New Working Timetable, which is transmitted to Timetable
         Participants by the LTP planning teams or the Railops Portal at D-26.

 2.7.3   New Working Timetables will be accompanied by a written commentary to assist Timetable
         Participants in identifying changes from the Prior Working Timetable and/or their Access Proposals.
         The commentary shall include a list of trains not included in the New Working Timetable with the
         reasons why they are not included. Plus details of any significant flexing of trains with the reason for
         the use of flex.

2.8 Appeal of Network Rail Decisions regarding the New Working
    Timetable
 2.8.1   The New Working Timetable Train Slots will be loaded into TRUST by Network Rail between D-21
         and D-18 following the Publication of the New Working Timetable, unless otherwise consulted.

 2.8.2   Following resolution of appeals, Network Rail will advise all affected Timetable Participants of any
         amendments to Train Slots previously proposed as soon as practicable and upload any changes to
         TRUST.




                                Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
