                                                     OFFICIAL


Network Rail                                                                                       Version 4.0
National                                                                                   Date: 28th July 2023
                                  Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change 2024
                                              Page 17 of 114

1.10 Run-round Times
 1.10.1 The values listed in Section 5.3 of the TPR are Junction Margins and Station Planning Rules.

 1.10.2 Run-round time is the minimum time between arrival and departure at a timing point when a
        locomotive or locomotives are moved from one end of a train to the other, including detachment,
        movement, attachment and safety checks.

 1.10.3 It involves detaching the locomotive(s), shunting via an adjacent line, and returning to reattach to the
        train at the opposite end.

 1.10.4 Typically, these movements are used in the operation of freight trains, although they are also used on
        locomotive-hauled passenger trains.

 1.10.5 Timetable Participants are responsible for ensuring that Run-round times are robust for operational
        usage and take account of local operational railway characteristics.

1.11 Engineering Recovery Allowances
 1.11.1 Engineering Recovery Allowance is additional time included in train schedules to cover the impact of
        planned temporary speed restrictions associated with engineering works on the network. Engineering
        Recovery Allowances may be applied as either a:

       •   Value between two timing points expressed in multiples of half-minutes
       •   Percentage uplift included in SRTs

 1.11.2 Where necessary and appropriate, consideration to be given to:

       •   Time of day
       •   Day of week
       •   Type of train
       •   Routing of train and geographical distribution of allowance
       •   Impact of restrictions of use e.g. single line working, weaving, SIMBIDS

1.12 Introduction of new SRTs in support of Train Operator Variation
    Requests
 1.12.1 Changes to Timetable Planning Rules may be made for the addition of new SRTs, where they did not
        previously exist, in support of a Train Operator Variation Request (TOVR).

 1.12.2 From D-26 and during the relevant Timetable Period, Timetable Participants may wish to vary either
        the New Working Timetable, if it is before the Timetable Change Date, or otherwise the Working
        Timetable on an ad hoc basis by submitting a TOVR. On occasions where the TOVR is not submitted
        with a full set of SRTs, SRTs may be proposed, consulted and added outside of the timescales
        outlined in Part D 2.2 of the Network Code.

 1.12.3 There are three processes by which new SRTs can be introduced in support of TOVRs. The first two
        options refer to TOVRs submitted that require SRT consultation, in which the TOVR is not required to
        run immediately. The third option refers to TOVRs submitted that require expediated SRT
        consultation. The default options are 1 and 2, should a TOVR need to be expedited, the operator
        must state when that the service is due to run within the submission.




                               Electronic copy – uncontrolled when printed
