                                         OFFICIAL




             F- added Odd Class 2 for trains Oxford to Milton Keynes via East West Rail
             F- added Even Class 2 for trains Milton Keynes to Oxford via East West Rail
             J - added Class 1 trains from Birmingham International/New Street to
             Crewe via Shrewsbury
             K- Amended Birmingham New Street to Crewe to now show Class 2 Stafford
             to Crewe, this represents new service pattern.
             K- Amended Crewe to Derby to show Class 1 Derby to Crewe, this now
             represents the class of the service and the direction it is applied.
             R - added Class 1 trains from Birmingham International/New Street to
             Manchester Piccadilly via Shrewsbury, Chester and Warrington Bank Quay

    1.3.2    Days of Operation
             No change

    1.3.3    Traction and Rolling Stock
             HSTGW4 removed as no longer in use.
             HST references removed throughout the document

    1.3.4    Line Codes
             BL line code deleted. This is not used
             CYL line code added for Claydon Loop
             DC line code, second definition corrected to Down (Nuneaton) Chord
             UC line code, corrected to Up (Nuneaton) Chord

    1.3.5    Activity and Other Codes
             No change



2   Route Description

    2.1      Planning Geography
             MD101     Denbigh Hall South Jn. Correction of reference MD736 to refer
                       to Bletchley High Level.
                       Bletchley Relief 1. TIPLOC ID added to allow easier identification
                       of line
                       Bletchley Relief 2. TIPLOC ID added to allow easier identification
                       of line
                       Lichfield Trent Valley Low Level. X added to code to reflect
                       trains crossing to the Chord Line.
             MD140     Fenny Stratford Jn. Note amended to refer to route MD741
                       towards Flyover Summit Jn
             MD232     Nuneaton. DC line code corrected to show Down (Nuneaton)
                       Chord
             MD301     Grand Jn. Note amended to reflect Timing point can be omitted
                       from 150+ schedules
             MD306     Five Ways. Note amended to reflect Timing Point can be omitted
                       from 150+ schedules
                       Ashchurch. Note amended to reflect Timing Point can be omitted
                       from 150+ schedules




                                            2
