                                     OFFICIAL




        NW3023 Headway between Plumley West SB and Greenbank now
               extended to Hartford C.L.C Jn. Section between Greenbank and
               Mouldsworth now shortened and is between Hartford C.L.C Jn
               and Mouldsworth. Note amended to remove 4 minute headway
               between Greenbank and Hartford C.L.C where trains diverged as
               no longer required with splits.
        NW9001 Existing entry deleted and replaced by new section. This collects
               headway sections between Earles Sidings SB and Chinley North
               Jn by direction. Change to the headway shown at Edale to
               Chinley East/North Jn from AB to AB+2

5.2.2   General Capacity Constraints
        No change

5.3     Junction Margins and Station Planning Rules
        Added Postal and test trains to light engines for explanation of passenger
        trains for application of different margins where this applies
        Standard Values- Minimum
        Minimum Turnround entry added to Chiltern Railways services for DMU and
        Class 68 and Mk.3 coaches. Can be reduced on agreement with operator
        MD101      Wembley Central. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times -
                   Down direction. Amended final entry for Class 6 to correctly state
                   over 2400t (inclusive). Avoids confusion with previous banding.
                   Denbigh Hall South Jn. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times
                   - Down direction. Current entry deleted and replaced with
                   adjustments based on stock type and trailing load. For passenger
                   this becomes a standard {1} and for freight based on Tratim data.
                   Clarified that adjustment applies approaching next timing point
                   and reason changed to Acceleration.
                   Adjustments to Sectional Running Times - Up direction. Current
                   entry deleted. New value of 1½ applies to all movements crossing
                   from the Slow Lines in the Up direction.
                   Junction margins are re-proposed. These include additional
                   margins for TK4133 signal and simplify some of the margins
                   shown previously. Some margins increased by ½ where first
                   movement is over 620m
                   Milton Keynes Central. Junction margins – annotations for notes
                   standardized to National TPR requirements. Up direction
                   movements grouped together. Two new margins added for
                   movements diverging at Denbigh Hall South Jn.
        MD105      Courteenhall Jn. Note under junction margins amended to show
                   (1) vice {1} to correct the circumstances when a reduced margin
                   can be applied
                   Collingtree Road Jn. Second margin, second movement, added
                   'Courteenhall Jn' to indicate that timing of second train is when it
                   passes that location
        MD301      Coventry. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times, Movement
                   Up. Corrected header text to 'Passing Trains from Berkswell
                   towards Gibbet Hill Jn' to reflect correct direction
                   Grand Jn. Junction Margins three and four have been
                   recalculated and uplifted by 1 and ½ respectively. Additional
                   margin shown for Pass from Up Coventry to Up Derby followed by
                   Pass on Down Coventry from Stechford, 2½ . Final margin has
                   been recalculated and uplifted by ½ .



                                        7
