NETWORK RAIL                           Timetable Planning Rules                     Version:   4
Region: North             Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024         Date:    28th July 2023
West and Central
                                                                                       Page:   237 of 443

Lawley Street FLT

Planning Notes
Departures
Departing trains in excess of 100SLU/640M must be planned with a minimum 20 minute OP stop in the Up
Washwood Heath Goods Loop. This is due to the train being assembled and brake test carried out in advance of
WP8902 signal.
Departing trains towards Landor Street Jn must be planned with a minimum 40 minute run round in the Up
Washwood Heath Goods Loop. This includes the time taken to assemble the train and to run round.

Arrivals
Arriving trains from Castle Bromwich Jn must be planned with a minimum 20 minute run round in the Up
Washwood Heath Goods Loop. The train is then propelled into the terminal.


Landor Street Jn

Junction Margins
First Movement                                      Second Movement                               Margin
All conflicting moves (see exception below)                                                       4 before/
                                                                                                  3 after
Up pass                                             Conflicting Up depart                         2

Planning Note
Trains standing at signal LL4772 signal on the Up St. Andrew’s that are longer than 454 meters/71SLUs (exclusive
of stand-back allowance) will foul St. Andrew’s Jn. Therefore, junction margins at St. Andrew’s Jn must be based
on trains’ departure time at Landor Street Jn if over length.


Proof House Jn

See entry under route MD301 Rugby Trent Valley Jn to Penkridge (via Birmingham)


MD555 NUNEATON NORTH JN TO WATER ORTON EAST JN

Abbey Jn

Adjustments to Sectional Running Times
Movement Up                                         Reason                                        Value
Train from Whitacre Jn to Nuneaton stopping at      Encountering adverse aspects approaching      1
platform 6 whilst a parallel move is taking place   Abbey Jn and Nuneaton platform 6
at Nuneaton onto the Nuneaton North Chord

Planning Rule/Junction Margin
A train routed on the Up Arley from Nuneaton Platform 7 to Abbey Jn and crossing to the Down Arley must have a
margin of 4 minutes before the next train from the direction of Water Orton/Whitacre Jn.




                               Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
