                        OFFICIAL




        Proof House Jn. Diverging margin added where first movement is
        pass towards Stechford on Up Coventry and second movement is
        pass to St Andrew's Jn or Aston, value 2½.
        Birmingham New Street. EMU formations to/from Soho LMD
        updated to include Class 730
        Soho LMD. EMU formations to/from Soho LMD updated to
        include Class 730
        Sandwell & Dudley. Added Class 197 to dwell times shown
MD306   Abbotswood Jn. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times,
        Movement Up, removed wording 'allowance to be shown after
        this location' Adjustment applies approaching the junction for
        flashing yellows and 30mph junction
MD320   Portobello Jn. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times -
        Movement Up, note added that all adjustments apply
        approaching next timing point as acceleration occurs after
        passing Portobello Jn.
MD401   Hatton. Two new margins shown where first movement is either
        passing or departing Platform 1 and second movement is a pass
        or depart from Platform 3 in the Up direction. Reduced margin
        based on cab ride observation and clearance time of signal
        sections.
        Hatton North Jn. First junction margin, added words (excluding
        from Hatton Down Goods Loop) as due to the slow speed exit
        and climbing gradient, unlikely to have cleared enough signals
        ahead for a train from Hatton West Jn towards Dorridge to be
        able to see green aspects
        Bordesley Jn. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times.
        Movement Down, wording amended for consistency and
        readability. Note added to advise that adjustment applies
        approaching next timing point. Movement Up wording similarly
        amended for consistency and readability.
MD410   Bedworth (Calor Gas Sidings) Ground Frame. Planning note
        amended to show arriving and departing movements. Value for
        OP stop amended for arriving trains based on observations for
        service. New entry for departing trains.
MD501   Kingsbury Jn. Three amendments made to rules to define that
        the departure time is from Kingsbury Reception Sidings and not
        Kingsbury Shunt Frame.
        Two rules have had exceptions added for reduced margins should
        pathing be applied. The % exception has been amended to show
        application
        A new rule added for a reduced headway for a train starting from
        a stand coming from Whitacre Jn direction that is going to
        Kingsbury Reception Sidings, that is following a passenger
        service from Water Orton.
        Water Orton. New diverging margin at Water Orton where the
        first train travels towards Coleshill Parkway and the second
        travels towards Kingsbury.
MD726   Blackgrove Road. New entry. All trains must stop here for token
        working purposes, either to return token or obtain token for the
        single line to Aylesbury North Goods Loop.
        Quainton Railhead. New entry, planning note. Clarifies method
        of working when two trains are required to enter Quainton
        Railhead.




                           8
