 NETWORK RAIL                             Timetable Planning Rules                           Version:   4
 Region: North               Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024               Date:    28th July 2023
 West and Central
                                                                                                Page:   118 of 443


5.2 Headways

The definition for Headways is listed in Section 6.5 1.5 of the National TPRs.


5.2.1 Headway Values
All times are in minutes. All routes are shown.

Where track circuit block (TCB) signalling applies, the standard headways for each route are shown,
together with any exceptions.

AB indicates locations where absolute block signalling applies. Here the headway is to be calculated from
the transit time of the first of each pair of trains running between the stated timing points. A value “x” shall
be added to the transit time to allow for the signaller’s actions and sighting of the relevant signal. The
planning headway is shown as “AB+x”.

AB methodology may also be used to express the headway in other areas (e.g. TCB), the value “x”
including the time taken to reset the route, clear the signal on entry to the section and sight the relevant
signal.

Single lines and other forms of signalling are shown, together with any values applicable, where they
occur.

“OTNS” or “OT” indicates One Train Working with No Train Staff; “OTS” or “OT(S)” indicates One train
Working with Train Staff. “NST” indicates No Signaller token. In these cases only one train is allowed in
the section at one time; a second train cannot be allowed to enter the section until the first train has left
the section.

“ETB” indicates Electric Token Block and “TB” indicate Tokenless Block for single lines.

“RB” indicates Radio Signalling where “long section tokens” can be issued between certain block posts
during times of low traffic volume.

Light engine movements, postal and test trains are to be treated as passenger trains when applying
headways where there is a passenger/freight differential.

Details of how to apply headways are listed in the National TPRs section 1.5.5.


 MD101 EUSTON TO ARMITAGE JN (EXCLUSIVE)
 TIMING POINT                            DOWN         UP           NOTES

 Euston to Camden Jn (inclusive)         3            3
 Camden Jn (exclusive) to                3 Fast       3 Fast       See section 5.3 – for converging/diverging margin
 Hanslope Jn (inclusive)                 Lines        Lines        exceptions applicable at Denbigh Hall South Jn and
                                         4 Slow       4 Slow       Milton Keynes Central
                                         Lines *      Lines *
                                                                   * 3 minute headway applies in both directions
                                                                   between Denbigh Hall South Jn and Milton Keynes
                                                                   Central (inclusive)
 Hanslope Jn (exclusive) to              3            3
 Rugeley North Jn (inclusive) via
 Weedon and Rugby




                                 Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
