 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                          Version:    4
 Region: North              Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024              Date:     28th July 2023
 West and Central
                                                                                             Page:     116 of 443


5 Running Times, Margins and Allowances
Except where otherwise stated, the information in this section of the Timetable Planning Rules reflects the
general rules used in developing the 1994/5 timetable (Several exceptions to the general rules were
agreed for 1994/5 and exceptions may continue to be possible with the specific agreement of Network
Rail in every case.)

5.1 Sectional Running Times
The definition for Sectional Running Times (SRTs) is listed in Section 6.4 of the National TPRs.

5.1.1 Source of Current SRTs
The definitive catalogue of SRTs is BPlan.

5.1.2 Method of Calculation
SRTs are revised by Train Operators and Network Rail as part of the Revision of Timetable Planning
Rules process outlined in Network Code Part D 2.2. Network Rail will, however, re–calculate SRTs for
particular train/route combinations in the following circumstances:

i) Where a Train Operator anticipates using a train/route combination for which no suitable SRTs exist;
ii) Where Network Rail anticipates a change to route data, e.g. line speed changes;
iii) Where there is evidence that the SRTs in current use do not adequately represent real train
     performance;
iv) Where it is cost–effective to re–calculate all SRTs on a route at the same time as a re–calculation for a
     particular train type.

Network Rail will reflect the methodology and assumptions described in Section 6 of the National TPRs
when calculating TPR proposals, unless and to the extent documented otherwise in respect of any given
proposal. Timetable participants are encouraged to submit change proposals for review and consultation
in line with the national methodology, or in line with such alternative methodology and assumptions as
favoured by the proposer. NR will not seek to reject any proposal on the exclusive basis of the
methodology employed, provided that the methodology and assumptions are clearly stated and
demonstrably adhered to in respect of the proposal received.

SRT change proposals may be calculated in a number of ways including, but not limited to:

a)   Through actual timing of trains
b)   Use of On Train Monitoring Recorder (OTMR) systems
c)   Use of computer system actual values
d)   Use of computer simulation tools
e)   By any other agreed methodology


It is permissible to include percentage uplift in SRTs instead of applying engineering recovery allowances
to be agreed by all affected parties.

In the event that the application of different methodologies produces conflicting proposals, a joint
observation exercise should be undertaken to ascertain what happens in reality.




                                Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
