                           OFFICIAL




MD736     Oxford Parkway. Adjustments to Sectional Running Times,
          heading corrected to 'Up' as approach control applies for trains in
          the Up direction crossing to the Down platform (Platform 2)
MD900     Worcester Through Sidings Ground Frame. Planning note added
          for requirement of 3 minute OP stop for trains to/from Worcester
          Hereford Sidings 5-7.
NW1001    Stafford. Adjustment value for Up Slow to Platform 5/6
          amended. Removal of one Up Adjustment as this was duplicated
          at Norton Bridge.
          Nine new junction margins added due to signal overlaps affecting
          moves to platform 5 and 6 in both directions.
          Norton Bridge. Adjustment in the Up has had the value increased
          to 1 as ½ was not sufficient. The reason for application has been
          amended to reference exact reason it is being applied.
          Basford Hall Jn. 5 junction margins added based on moves to
          Crewe Basford Hall Yard (Freightliner)
          Crewe. Dwell time for loco hauled trains amended to 2 for all
          types of LH services.
          Crewe Coal Yard. Second Down adjustments removed. First
          Down adjustment reason amended to Acceleration. Value
          amended to 3 for Freight. Value amended on fourth Down
          Adjustment for passenger to 1.
          Up movement adjustments amended to simplify. Values
          amended to 2 for all, removing the splits depending on service
          type. Third adjustment removed as combined with second move.
          Crewe Coal Yard. Two new junction margins based on moves
          from the Down Independent Lines. First rule amended to Down
          Slow move only. Value amended.
          Farington Jn. Amended the First move on the fifth rule to say
          crossing from Up Slow vice Down Slow.
          Preston. Margin for first movement depart Platform 4 or 5 to Up
          Fast followed by Up arrival into Platform 6 reinstated. This was
          erroneously deleted in Version 2.1
NW1007    Gresty Lane Jn. Removal of note for reference of requiring prior
          authorisation.
NW1009    Basford Hall Jn. Standage length in Up direction added.
          Crewe Signal NH34/36. Amendment of planning rules
          information for simplicity. The addition of SLU measurements
          added where missed.
          Crewe Sorting Sidings North SB. Planning rules note amended to
          remove reference of prior agreement. Two new Junction Margins
          values added.
          Salop Goods Jn SB. Two new values added for Junction Margins.
NW2015    Eccles. Junction margin added for a train departing from Up
          Goods Loop following a passing service
NW3007 Bidston. Minimum Turnround Time, added Class 197 and 230 to
       the table
NW3023 Greenbank. Removed junction margins as these are now timed at
       Hartford C.L.C Jn.




                              9
