NETWORK RAIL                           Timetable Planning Rules                         Version:   4
Region: North             Final Proposal for Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024             Date:    28th July 2023
West and Central
                                                                                          Page:    299 of 443

Shap Summit

Pass on Up or Down Mains                           Down departure of over 283 meters/44 SLU           2
                                                   from Shap Summit Quarry arrives Shap
                                                   Summit


Shap Summit Quarry

Arriving Trains
Down arrivals will be signalled towards CE133 signal on the Down Sidings and draws forward into the neck. Once
the rear of the train is clear of the hand points leading to the loading siding, the locomotive will propel into the
loading siding. A dot stop to be shown at Shap Summit for arrivals.

Up arrivals are required to run forward to Tebay where the locomotive can run-round the train and proceed in the
Down direction to Shap Summit Quarry, as described above.

Departing Trains
Down departures up to and including 283 meters/44 SLU depart from CE133 signal to the Down Main and require
a minimum stop of 2 minutes for reversal at Shap Summit.

Down departures in excess of 283 meters/44 SLU depart from CE133 signal to the Down Main and require a
minimum stop of 4 minutes for reversal at Shap Summit and will block the Up and Down Mains for the duration of
this movement.

See Shap Summit for junction margins.

Up departures up to a maximum of 25 SLU can depart from CE129 to the Up Main. A minimum stop of 20 minutes
for run-round at Shap Summit is required.



Shap Hardendale Quarry Jn

Arriving Trains
Down arrivals will come to a stand clear of CE142 signal on the Down Main. A 2-minute stop to be planned before
the train commences the propelling move to Hardendale Quarry.

There are no special requirements applicable for Up arrivals.

Departing Trains
For northbound departures these will be signalled from CE141 signal to the Down Main. Southbound departures
propel from CE141 signal across the Up Main to stand clear behind CE142 signal. A minimum stop of 2 minutes to
be planned before the train departs from the signal. Once the route is cleared, the train will proceed across to the
Up Main towards Shap Summit

Junction Margins
First Movement                                     Second Movement                                   Margin
Arrive Shap Hardendale Quarry from Eden            Up train pass Shap Summit                         5½
Valley
Arrive Shap Hardendale Quarry from Eden            Up train arrive Shap Summit                       6½
Valley
Down train pass Harrison’s Sidings                 Depart/Pass Shap Hardendale Quarry Jn             1
                                                   Depart/Pass Shap Hardendale Quarry Jn from
                                                   Hardendale Quarry




                              Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
