                                   OFFICIAL




                   Hartford C.L.C Jn. New mandatory timing point. Adjustment
                   required for services planned to pass to Hartford Jn as slow speed
                   crossing. 1/2 for passenger and 1 for freight Added adjustment
                   for freight passing from Hartford Jn for acceleration from slow
                   speed crossing. {1/2} to be applied at Greenbank and at next
                   timing point as service will not be travelling at line speed at
                   Greenbank. Two junction margins added, these were previously
                   written at Greenbank and have now been moved to Hartford
                   C.L.C Jn as this is where the conflict will be timed. Two further
                   margins added for first moves from Mouldsworth.
        NW4001     Shap Hardendale Quarry Jn. Wording of third margin amended
                   second movement. makes the margin clearer and consistent in its
                   application.
        NW5001     Sandbach. Fifth and sixth Down adjustment wording amended to
                   reflect new timing point of Sandbach Signal 3723. Reasons have
                   also been standardised. Value of fifth adjustment has been
                   amended to 2 vice 1.5.
                   Sixth Junction Margin removed as headway is the value to be
                   applied and needs not to be referenced.
        NW5009     Stone. Negative adjustment shown for XC 221 to/from Colwich
                   due to SRTs being calculated via the slower route, thus SRTs are
                   quicker on the direct route via Hixon
        NW6001     Burnden Jn. Diverging junction margin added for first movement
                   to platform 5 at Bolton and second movement to either 1, 2 or 3
                   at Bolton.
        NW9001     Dore West Jn and Up Bamford Loop entries deleted as these
                   locations no longer appear on this line of route



5.4     Platform Lengths
        Albrighton. Platform lengths updated to reflect measurements shown in
        Sectional Appendix
        Bamford. Location deleted, no longer shown in the NW&C TPRs
        Bilbrook. Platform lengths updated to reflect measurements shown in
        Sectional Appendix
        Carlton. Removed entries for both Up and Down as Carlton is not on NW&C
        Chester. Platform 1 length amended to 135 metres to match the Sectional
        Appendix
        Grindleford. Location deleted, no longer shown in the NW&C TPRs
        Hartlebury. Platform lengths updated to reflect measurements shown in
        Sectional Appendix
        Hathersage. Location deleted, no longer shown in the NW&C TPRs
        Hope. Location deleted, no longer shown in the NW&C TPRs
        Oakengates. Platform lengths updated to reflect measurements shown in
        Sectional Appendix
        Winslow. Spelling corrected.

5.4.1   Loop Lengths
        NW2009 New entries for loop lengths added for Football Field Sidings
                  (MSC) and Latchford for both Down and Up directions.
        NW5009 Up Goods Loop shown at Longport Jn vice Bradwell Jn, as trains
                  will be held at the former. Amended note to reflect the correct
                  order of the standage i.e. in the Up direction.




                                      10
