                         OFFICIAL




         Sidings.
         Preston and Preston Fylde Jn. Details shown of Line codes that
         should be used at the north end of Preston based on the
         departing line from the station (northbound) or approaching from
         Preston Fylde Jn (southbound). Note TL line code in Down at
         Preston is corrected to DTL and in the Up direction at Preston
         Fylde Jn TL line code is corrected to UTL. This matches the
         geography shown in Bplan.
NW1007   Gresty Green West Jn. Made mandatory timing point. Route
         codes added in Down direction to show which line schedule is to
         use. Default line code for Up moves towards Shrewsbury as only
         one route available.
         Gresty Green Sidings. Line code removed from Down direction
         Crewe PAD renamed to Gresty Lane Down Sidings. Line code
         removed from Up direction
         Gresty Green East Jn. Made non conditional. Removed track code
         from Down direction. X added to code. Note updated to remove
         incorrect reference and to remove platform detail note.
         Gresty Lane Signal GL9014. Line code removed from Down
         Direction as incorrect. DSA line code added in the Up direction to
         reflect which line the schedule will use. Notes updated with
         correct location referenced. (TBC) removed
         Gresty Lane Reception. DTA line code removed from Down
         Direction. DSA line code added in Up Direction. Notes amended
         to correct location.
         Crewe Signal GL9021. New timing point for shunt moves in the
         Down Direction. Notes added for reference
         Crewe Signal GL9023. New timing point for shunt moves in the
         Down Direction. Notes added for reference
         Gresty Lane Jn. Notes amended to reflect correct to/from
         locations.
         Crewe Pway Shops Yard. Line code removed in Down Direction
         Crewe Signal GL9042. New timing point for shunt moves in the
         Up Direction for moves from Crewe D.H.S.
         Down Salop Goods Loops. S added as this was missing.
         Crewe Signal CE551. S added as this was missing.
NW1009   Sandbach Signal MS3723. New timing point on Down
         Manchester Independent Line to allow schedules to be stopped
         without blocking platforms at Sandbach.
NW1013   Crewe Sorting Sidings North. Timing point removed as this has
         been replaced with Crewe Basford Hall Yard (Freightliner).
         Crewe Sorting Sidings North SB. Notes amended to reflect
         to/from location
         Crewe Signal NH17. New timing location to allow schedules to
         stop on line between Gresty Lane Jn and Crewe Sorting Sidings
         North SB.
         Gresty Bridge No.1 Siding. New timing point to reflect line to
         DRS Depot.
         Gresty Bridge (DRS). New timing point for DRS depot
         Gresty Road Western Sidings 1-3. New timing point to reflect
         sidings.
NW3001   Chester Middle Yard. Reference to showing siding detail is
         deleted. The berthing arrangements will be decided on the day so
         not appropriate to require this information at planning stage




                             4
