                           OFFICIAL




MD320      Bushbury Jn. Correction to reference to next timing location.
           Amended to Penkridge on MD301.
MD501      Castle Bromwich Jn. Addition of missing line code ML in Up
           direction. Note updated to reflect timing point can be omitted
           from 150+ schedules
           Grand Jn. Note amended to reflect Timing point can be omitted
           from 150+ schedules
MD575      Grand Jn. Note amended to reflect Timing point can be omitted
           from 150+ schedules
MD712      Aylesbury. Route reference to Aylesbury Vale Parkway amended
           to MD726
MD720      Aylesbury. Route reference to Aylesbury Vale Parkway amended
           to MD726
MD726      Aylesbury Vale Parkway. Removed reference to platform detail
           being shown at here. No platform detail is selectable, and TRUST
           does not show any platform/routing information here.
MD736      Bicester Gavray Jn. Line code UB and note concerning Down
           direction movements reversing behind Signal OB1792 deleted.
           Trains no longer reverse at this signal and there is no signalled
           move to this location from Bicester direction.
           Bicester Signal OB1792. Location deleted, this is no longer a
           reversal point on the Up Bletchley
           Claydon West Jn. Note referencing platform detail to be shown
           deleted. Reference to route MD726 corrected with note added
           that line is currently out of use towards Calvert
           Claydon Loops. New location added to planning geography. This
           location includes the Claydon Loop and Reception Line. Platform
           detail to be shown to distinguish which line is being used.
           Claydon East Jn. Entry updated with platform detail deleted
           (replaced under Claydon Loops). Note added that this is a timing
           point for trains crossing to or from Claydon Loops.
           Bletchley Signal TK4133. Added as a timing point for trains on
           the Down Bletchley. To be used to hold a train waiting a path to
           the Down Slow at Denbigh Hall South Jn. This is the protecting
           signal for the junction.
MD741      Flyover Summit Jn is shown italicized as it is a reference point,
           not a timing point. The line code indicators ‘-‘ are deleted.
           Fenny Stratford Jn. Note added that for timing purposes this
           location is shown as Fenny Stratford
           Fenny Stratford deleted from this line of route as per Sectional
           Appendix it will only appear on MD140. Notes amended at Fenny
           Stratford Jn accordingly.
MD900      Wylds Lane Jn. Note amended to reflect Timing Point can be
           omitted from 150+ schedules.
       Worcester Ground Frame. New location added to planning
       geography. This location is situated on the through lines at the
       back of Worcester Shrub Hill, the ground frame controls
       intermediate signals on both the Up and Down lines. Only
       required for trains stopping here
NW1001 Colwich shown underlined as this is a mandatory timing point
       Stafford Trent Valley Jn shown without underlining as this is a
       conditional timing point
       Farington Jn is no longer bold as timing point only required when
       crossing between FL and SL, crossing to Lostock Hall Jn or Leyland


                              3
