                                                      OFFICIAL

NETWORK RAIL                                 Timetable Planning Rules                            Version:   4
Scotland                        Final Rules for Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024                   Date:    28/07/2023
                                                                                                   Page:    15 of 242

  5. N, R, G, D and U are only valid with Train Categories XC, XD, XI, XX, XZ, OO, OW, OL, BS, BR and blank
      (i.e. ‘advertised’ services). R, D and U are additionally valid with Train Categories XU and OU (unadvertised
      services).
  6. K, KC, KE, KF, KS are only valid with Train Categories starting X or O.
  7. If TF is present then none of K, KC, KE, KF, KS can be present.
  8. Activity T indicates that a train stops to pick up and set down. This normally refers to passengers. Activity –
      T indicates that the train stops to attach and detach vehicles. At any location where a ‘stop’ time is shown,
      TPS or a similar system will assume a default Activity is required unless otherwise specified. These default
      Activities are as follows: T for trains with a Train Category starting in X or O, OP for trains with a Train
      Category starting in Z or E, and –T for all other trains (but see below). The default Activity will be generated
      when the upload file is created.
  9. If Activities U, D, N, R, OP, S, TW, –U or –D are specified then this overrides the defaults and only the
      specified Activities will be included in the upload file (it is not necessary to use the * suppression code if
      these codes are present).
  10. If a traffic Activity is NOT required at a ‘stop’ location with Activities other than U, D, N, R, OP, S, TW, –U or –
      D (e.g. at ‘C’ or ‘L’ stops) then the * must be input to the TPS or similar system train specification at that
      location to suppress –T or T. If the * is not added to indicate a non–traffic stop then T, –T or OP will be
      added to the upload file.
  11. If an Activity –T (only) is required on a train with a Category starting in X or O it is necessary to add a * to the
      TPS spec (to suppress ‘T’) and positively show –T in the Activity column.




                                     Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
