                                              OFFICIAL

SC001 Gretna Junction to Glasgow Central (Via Beattock)
Carstairs Station, Arrive from Carstairs North Jn, followed by arrive from Carstairs East/South Jn
moved to Overlap margins section, as this is a signal overlap conflict.
New signal overlap margin for arrive from Carstairs East/South Jn, followed by arrive from
Carstairs North Jn.

Motherwell, removed HST dwell time entry.

SC003 Carstairs South Junction to Haymarket East Junction
Slateford, removed reference to HST7XC for one adjustment allowance.

SC031 Gretna Junction to Glasgow Bridge Street Junction (Via Kilmarnock)
Muirhouse Central Junction, correction of the spelling 'Pollokshields’.

Muirhouse North Junction, correction of the spelling 'Pollokshields’.

SC077 Ardrossan South Beach to Ardrossan Harbour
New entry for Ardrossan Harbour. Connectional allowance of 14 minutes between train and ferry
services.

SC107 Edinburgh to Glasgow Queen Street (Via Falkirk High)
Edinburgh, removed HST dwell time entry for through trains.

SC115 Cowlairs North Junction to Knightswood North Junction
Cowlairs North Junction, new junction margin for first movement, Pass to Cowlairs East Junction,
second movement pass to Cowlairs West Junction.

SC119 Greenhill Upper Junction to Dundee Central Junction
Dunblane, new adjustment allowance for Up trains depart platform 2 or 3. Note added to state
applied approaching next timing point.
Junction margin for arrive platform 3, second movement, pass Down removed.
Junction margin for Depart/pass platform 2 to Dunblane signal DB43, second movement depart
platform 3 to Dunblane SB value amended to 2 minutes.
New junction margin for depart platform 3 to Dunblane Signal DB43, second movement Depart
platform 2 to Dunblane Signal box.
Depart/pass 'Up' amended to platform 1 to Stirling for consistency.
New junction margin for depart platform 2/3 to Stirling, second movement, arrive from Dunblane
SB.
Platform 3 added to first movement Depart Dunblane SB to Platform 1/3.
Various junction margins added for conflicts moves at the South end of Dunblane.

SC147 Berwick to Edinburgh Waverley
Oxwellmains Crossover, removed reference to HST7XC for one adjustment allowance.

Craigentinny Junction, Down direction adjustment allowance, note added to say reduce to ½ if
stopping at Abbeyhill Junction.

SC171 Haymarket West Junction to Dundee Central Junction (Via Kirkcaldy)
Thornton North Junction, new adjustment allowance for Down train towards Ladybank from
Thornton North Signal ET567.
Thornton North Junction, removed reference to exclude HST7XC for one adjustment allowance.
Removed adjustment allowance for HST7XC only.

Leuchars, removed reference to HST in junction margin.

SC191 Dundee Central Junction to Aberdeen
Dundee, dwell time, removed reference to XC HST.




                                                  4
