                                                     OFFICIAL

NETWORK RAIL                                 Timetable Planning Rules                         Version:   4
Scotland                        Final Rules for Subsidiary Change Timetable 2024                Date:    28/07/2023
                                                                                                Page:    53 of 242


3 Electrification

3.1 Electrification Limits
Limits of the 25 kV AC and 750V DC electrification systems are contained in Table A of the Sectional Appendix to the
Working Timetables, issued by, Network Rail. Refer to Table A for the given location to identify the type of
electrification that applies.

3.2 Electrification Supply Restrictions
Under normal conditions, the electrification power supplies will not place any restrictions on the use of approved
electric traction. However, the Route Clearance sections of the Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables, issued
by, Network Rail do tabulate restrictions on the movement of electric trains. Refer to Table A and select Route
Clearance.
Under maintenance conditions, certain sections of the electrified network may be blocked to electric traction. These
restrictions are contained within the Network Rail Engineering Access Statement for the appropriate year. Additional
restrictions may also arise in connection with engineering possessions requested through the Engineering Access
Statement amendment procedure.

SC147 BERWICK TO EDINBURGH WAVERLEY
Due to power supply constraints in the Marshall Meadows Feeder area and in the Innerwick feeder area, certain
services are required to run in diesel through these sections. A list of these services is available from Capacity
Planning, and the addition of any more electric services should be discussed with Capacity Planning. The maximum
number of electric trains through these sections can be found in NESA.


3.3 Areas with non-standard Electrification System
SC061 SHIELDS JUNCTION TO PAISLEY CANAL
Due to the low wire height of the Overhead Line Equipment on this line of route any non-electric trains planned must
seek approval from the Operations Manager (Glasgow) so as it can be planned for the OHLE to be de-energised to
enable passage of the train.




                                     Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
