                                              OFFICIAL

5 Running Times, Margins and Allowances

5.1 Sectional Running Times
Consulted separately.

5.2 Headways

SC113 Winchburgh Junction to Dalmeny Junction
Down and Up direction headway amended to AB+1½.

SC115 Cowlairs North Junction to Knightswood North Junction
Down and Up direction headway between Maryhill and Westerton amended to AB+1½.
Down and Up direction headway between Cowlairs North Jn and Maryhill amended to AB+1½.
Note added for Down direction to state train may depart Ashfield simultaneous with an arrival at
Maryhill. Note added for Up direction to state train may arrive/pass Maryhill 3 minutes after a
departure from Possilpark & Parkhouse.
Down direction headway between Cowlairs West Junction and Cowlairs North Junction amended
to 3 minutes, note added to state only one train may be shown between Cowlairs West and
Cowlairs North Junctions at any time.
Up direction headway between Cowlairs West Junction and Cowlairs North Junction amended to
AB+2½.

SC115(0) Maryhill Park Jn to Anniesland Bay Platform
Down direction headway amended to AB+1. Note added to state trains calling at Summerston
may depart simultaneously with arrival/pass at Anniesland.
Up direction headway amended to AB+0.

SC116 Cowlairs East Junction to Cowlairs North Junction
Up direction headway amended to AB+3½. Note added to state may be reduced to AB+2½ if (1)
applied approaching Cowlairs North or if train calls at Possilpark or Ashfield.

SC119 Greenhill Upper Junction to Dundee Central Junction
Larbert Junction to Stirling headway to apply inclusive of Stirling. Stirling to Dunblane headway to
apply exclusive of Stirling.
Up direction, train stopping at Bridge of Allan may depart Dunblane 4 minutes after non-stopping
service.
Two new absolute block sections, Dunblane to Dunblane Signal DB43, and Dunblane Signal DB43
to Greenloaning with value of AB+2.

SC164 Tweedbank to Newcraighall North Junction
Down and Up direction headway between Tweedbank and Bowland Junction amended to AB+1½.
Down and Up direction headway between Bowland Junction and Galabank Junction amended to
AB+1½.
Up direction headway between Fushiebridge Junction and Kings Gate Junction amended to
AB+1½.
Up direction headway between Kings Gate Junction and Newcraighall amended to AB+2½. Note
added to state Up trains may depart Newcraighall 1 minute after preceding train passes King’s
Gate Junction.

SC167 Craiglockhart Junction to Slateford Junction
Up direction headway amended to AB+3.

5.3 Junction Margins and Station Planning Rules

Standard Values
Removed reversal allowance for CrossCountry HST.
Removed HST from CrossCountry Train Preparation Allowances.




                                                 3
