 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                       Version:   4.3
 Route: Sussex                           Final Rules for Subsidiary                     Date:      18th October 2023
                                               Timetable 2024 OFFICIAL
                                                                                        Page:      49 of 163

 SO170 TONBRIDGE TO BOPEEP JUNCTION
 SO600 WILLINGDON JUNCTION TO ASHFORD INTERNATIONAL
 operation between Tonbridge station and Hastings station, with a limitation of at least a 30 minute gap between
 services on the same road at each station.
 In addition, ALL electric trains to operate in half power mode/notch 2, between Tonbridge station and Etchingham
 station in both directions.
 Planned outage of the traction supply rectifier (or all dc circuit breakers open) at High Brooms and/or Grove Hill
 and/or Wadhurst substations are not permitted Monday to Saturday between the hours of 06.00 hours and 21.00
 hours. Planned outage of Feeder 1921 or Feeder 1922 is not permitted Monday to Saturday between the hours of
 06.00 hours and 21.00 hours unless prior arrangements have been made to enable the rectifiers at the affected
 substation to remain in service.


4.3 Freight Wagon Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables,
issued by Network Rail. The Route Availability for a given location is in the ‘Signalling and Remarks’ column of Table
A. Route Clearance Table D5 Route clearance of freight vehicles gives further guidance on freight wagon
restrictions.

Trains conveying vehicles that have a heavy axle weight or other exceptional characteristics, or vehicles conveying
containers or swap bodies require an RT3973 form.

Note: The Rule Book GERT8000 Section TW4 defines a container as an intermodal transport unit constructed to a
standard (usually specified by the ISO) suitable for conveyance by road, rail or sea.

Note: The Sectional Appendix does not cover the CTRL HS1. The CTRL has its own Working Manual.


4.4 Freight Train Load Limits
Trailing load limits for all traction types are contained in the Freight Loads Book published by Network Rail.

Note: It is important to understand the weight limitations that apply to trains especially over sections of heavily graded
routes. Coupling strength information is also contained in the Freight Loads Book. Coupling strength is important in
determining the trailing loads that trains can convey.


4.5 Freight Train Length Limits
Refer to the Freight Train Loads Book published by Network Rail for the length limits of freight trains.

Note: The Sectional Appendix quotes loop lengths in metres and feet. These are the absolute lengths of the loop
from the signal at the outlet to the fouling point at the entrance to the loop.




                                  Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
