 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                     Version:   4.3
 Route: Sussex                           Final Rules for Subsidiary                   Date:      18th October 2023
                                               Timetable 2024 OFFICIAL
                                                                                      Page:      56 of 163

5.1.3 New and Revised Sectional Running Times
New and revised SRTs are revised by Train Operators and Network Rail on an individual basis. These should be
supplied by applying the methodology described in Section 6 of the National TPRs unless another methodology is
deemed appropriate, provided that the methodology and assumptions are clearly stated and demonstrably adhered to
in respect of the proposal received.


5.1.4 Timing of Trains Consisting of Passenger Vehicles on Goods Lines
The sectional running timings quoted for trains consisting of passenger vehicles on Goods Lines reflect the speeds
shown in the relevant Table ‘A’ of the appropriate Sectional Appendix. They do not constitute an authority to time
trains conveying passengers on a Goods Lines. Nor do they reflect the permitted speeds at which a train conveying
passengers can proceed. Network Rail will offer the sectional running times for trains conveying passengers on a
Goods Line on a train-by-train basis. For those times please apply to the Operational Planning Department.

Operations Publications publish the authority to allow the planned operation of trains conveying passengers on Goods
Lines. Before Operations Publications can grant authority they require confirmation that the track is fit for purpose and
that there is a safe method of operation. Therefore, the Operational Planning Department must apply to the relevant
Track Engineer and Operations Manager for confirmation of these requirements in writing. The Operational Planning
Department must pass these responses to Operations Publications. The Operational Planning Department is
responsible for advising Operations Publications of the requirement to operate a passenger train on a Goods Line at
least 8 weeks before the day of operation.




                                 Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
