 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                       Version:   4.3
 Route: Sussex                           Final Rules for Subsidiary                     Date:      18th October 2023
                                               Timetable 2024 OFFICIAL
                                                                                        Page:      67 of 163

5.2.2 General Capacity Constraints
ma
The standard headway as shown in 5.2.1 is defined as the minimum planned interval between trains at their closest
point in any route section as shown. Assumptions as to the capacity of any particular route section should not be
made solely by the information contained within this sub-section.

Network Rail will expect operators to allow greater margins between trains, where possible, in order that the finished
timetable is robust.

If operators time a series of trains at the minimum headway as shown, they are expected to allow an additional margin
of either 2 minutes before another train is timed to follow, or 1 minute each for the next 2 successive trains. A series
should normally be defined as a maximum of 4 successive trains.

If trains are deliberately timed to close up on a preceding train, additional allowances must be inserted.

ETCS Level 2 operating within GTR trains will normally be operational between Blue Anchor Junction and Blackfriars
Junction via the Snow Hill Lines and lines 4 & 5. Special operational arrangements will need to apply for trains taking
alternative routes between these locations. A 2 ½ minute headway is therefore allowed between consecutive trains
operated by ETCS compatible rolling stock

In the interests of a more robust timetable and performance, it is intended that bids from operators for additional
services over certain lines and junctions which have minimal spare capacity will be limited for both permanent and
amended train working, with the following exceptions:

a) Where usage already exceeds the capacity limit, operators will be permitted to retain existing paths but will be
   encouraged to move trains away from the critical period or route section where there are acceptable
   customer/cost considerations. If an operator relinquishes a path in the critical period, other operators would not
   be able to re-occupy the path.
b) If an operator wishes to bid for an additional train/s in the critical period or over the critical route section, that
   request will be tabled for discussion. Normally, additional bids that breach the capacity limit will not be accepted
   but in exceptional circumstances may be accepted subject to all parties affected acknowledging and accepting the
   performance risks.

Where single line working is to operate or trains are to be routed to run on a line other than that normally planned for
them, constraints on capacity will apply – see Engineering Access Statement.

The following special capacity and timing restrictions apply in addition to the constraints stated elsewhere in this
document:


 SO250 FACTORY JUNCTION TO MITRE BRIDGE JUNCTION
 LINE/LOCATION                 SECTION                 CRITICAL           REMARKS
                                                       TIMES SX
 Factory Junction              Factory Junction        07.00 – 09.45      From Longhedge Junction to
                                                       16.00 – 19.00      Atlantic/Chatham Lines
 North Pole Junction           North Pole Junction     ALL DAY            No more than 13 paths per hour in each
                               to Latchmere                               direction
                               Junction (No 3)                            Stopping services are likely to absorb more
                                                                          than one path


 SO250A GROSVENOR BRIDGE JUNCTION TO FACTORY JUNCTION
 LINE/LOCATION                 SECTION                 CRITICAL           REMARKS
                                                       TIMES SX
 Factory Junction              Factory Junction        07.00 – 09.45      From Longhedge Junction to
                                                       16.00 – 19.00      Atlantic/Chatham Lines




                                  Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
