 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                      Version:    4.3
 Route: Sussex                           Final Rules for Subsidiary                    Date:       18th October 2023
                                               Timetable 2024 OFFICIAL
                                                                                        Page:      48 of 163


4 Rolling Stock Restrictions

4.1 Locomotive Route Availability
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table ‘A’ and select Route Clearance.

 SO500 LONDON VICTORIA TO BRIGHTON
 ROUTE SECTION                         DOWN            UP             RESTRICTION

 London Victoria to Brighton           ALL             ALL            Class 92 Locomotives are not permitted on the
                                       Linecodes       Linecodes      whole of the route


 SO550 REDHILL TO TONBRIDGE
 ROUTE SECTION                         DOWN            UP             RESTRICTION

 Redhill to Tonbridge                  ALL             ALL            Class 92 Locomotives are not permitted on the
                                       Linecodes       Linecodes      whole of the route




4.2 Passenger Stock Restrictions
See the applicable Route Clearance table for the given location in Sectional Appendix to the Working Timetables
issued by Network Rail. Refer to Table ‘A’ and select Route Clearance.

 SO170 TONBRIDGE TO BOPEEP JUNCTION
 SO600 WILLINGDON JUNCTION TO ASHFORD INTERNATIONAL
 Restrictions due to Electrical Control Office Outages

 Unplanned outage of High Brooms Substation traction supply rectifier or all dc circuit breakers open, (Grove Hill
 traction supply rectifier in service). All 12 car electric trains to operate in half power mode/notch 2, between buffer
 stops of 12 car Tonbridge Wells Turn back siding and High Brooms station in both directions. No additional
 restrictions on 8 or 4 car formations.
 Unplanned outage Grove Hill Substation traction supply rectifier and/or HV Feeder 1921 or all dc circuit breakers
 open (High Brooms and Wadhurst traction supply rectifier in service). All trains to operate in half power mode/
 notch 2, between Frant station and High Brooms station in both directions
 Unplanned outage Wadhurst Substation traction supply rectifier and/or HV Feeder 1922, (High Brooms and Grove
 Hill traction supply rectifier in service)
 All 12 car electric trains to operate in half power mode/notch 2, between Tonbridge Wells station and High Brooms
 station in both directions. No additional restrictions on 8 or 4 car formations
 Extended high voltage feeding from feeder 1926 at Bo Peep substation to Grove Hill substation and failure of UPS
 at Grove Hill or Wadhurst substations. All electric trains to operate in half power mode, notch 2, between Frant
 station and High Brooms station in both directions
 Outage of High Brooms substation traction supply rectifier or all dc circuit breakers open and outage Grove Hill
 substation traction supply rectifier and/or HV Feeder 1921 or all dc circuit breakers open (Wadhurst traction supply
 rectifier in service). Electric train services limited to maximum of 8 car operation between Tonbridge station and
 Hastings station, with a limitation of at least a 30 minute gap between services on the same road at each station.
 In addition, ALL electric trains to operate in half power mode/notch 2, between Tonbridge station and Stonegate
 station in both directions
 Unplanned outage of High Brooms substation traction supply rectifier or all dc circuit breakers open and
 unplanned outage Wadhurst substation traction supply rectifier and/or HV Feeder 1922 or all dc circuit breakers
 open, (Grove Hill substation traction supply rectifier in service). Electric services limited to maximum of 8 car


                                  Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed
