                                                        OFFICIAL

 NETWORK RAIL                           Timetable Planning Rules 2024                        Version:    4.1
 Western + Wales            Final Principal and Preliminary Proposal for Subsidiary
                                                                OFFICIAL                       Date:     6th October 2023
                                            Change Timetable 2024                              Page:     100 of 289


5.2.2 General Capacity Constraints
Where single line working is to operate or trains are to be routed to run on a line other than that normally planned for
them, constraints on capacity will apply – see Engineering Access Statement.

The following special capacity and timing restrictions apply in addition to the constraints stated elsewhere in this
document:

     Network Rail intends to restrict planned usage to 90% of capacity, according to the following criteria:

     (a) Headways used are strict minimum headways.

     (b) Period of time measured is a minimum of half an hour.

     (c) Capacity is measured over a signal block section, through a junction, through a platform or on a single line
     section.

     EXCEPTIONS :-

     (i)               Where usage already exceeds 90% capacity, businesses will be permitted to retain existing
                       paths but will be encouraged to move trains away from the critical period where there are
                       acceptable cost/customer considerations. If a business relinquishes a path in the critical
                       period, other businesses would not be able to re- occupy the path (see ii).

     ( ii )            If a business wishes to run an additional train/s in the critical period, that request will be
                       tabled for discussion. Normally, additional trains that breach the 90% level will not be
                       accepted, but in exceptional circumstances it may be agreed provided all parties
                       acknowledge the performance risks.

     These restrictions will apply on the following route sections :-

 GW103 PADDINGTON TO UFFINGTON
 Between Paddington and Reading in both directions.

 GW105 UFFINGTON TO FORDGATE VIA BOX
 Between Bathampton Jn and Bristol Temple Meads in both directions.

 GW900 PILNING TO FISHGUARD HARBOUR
 Between Pilning and Severn Tunnel Junction.

 NW3001 SALTNEY JUNCTION TO HOLYHEAD
 Steam Hauled services must be timed over Conwy Tubular Bridge 30 minutes prior to a booked service to allow a
 full inspection of the structure to take place prior to the passage of the next booked service.




                                       Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
