                                                        OFFICIAL

 NETWORK RAIL                           Timetable Planning Rules 2024                       Version:   4.1
 Western + Wales            Final Principal and Preliminary Proposal for Subsidiary
                                                                OFFICIAL                      Date:    6th October 2023
                                            Change Timetable 2024                             Page:    289 of 289



5.6 Watering of Steam Locomotives
The following sites only are authorised. The constraints shown must be strictly adhered to and in cases the Train
Operator should produce a Method Statement describing their safety control measures, etc. and should issue
suitable internal operating instructions:

 Location                                                      Constraints

 Holyhead Platform 1
 Llandudno Junction Platforms 1 and 4

It should be noted that ‘Goods Line Authority’ may be required for some of the locations listed above. See Section
5.1.4 above for Passenger Trains over Goods Lines

On Network Rail controlled infrastructure, work (i.e. the watering activity) may only take place under the control of a
COSS.

Additional sites may be considered by the Route’s Safety Review Group subject to the provision of suitable
supporting documentation.
6 Timetabling Considerations

6.1 Advertised and Working Times
It is not permissible for trains to be specified to be advertised to arrive before or depart after the booked times stated
in the working timetable (WTT).

It is permissible for trains to be specified to be advertised to depart before the booked times stated in the working
timetable in the following circumstances;

(i) Where the WTT departure time is delayed to achieve the required headway behind a preceding train or margin
    following a conflicting move.

(ii) As an aid to punctual departure where this practice has been agreed between the Train Operator and Network
     Rail.

By agreement between the Train Operator and Network Rail, trains may be specified to be advertised to arrive after
the booked times stated in the WTT. This agreement is used instead of engineering/performance allowances.


6.2 Timing of Light Locomotives
It is a general principle that all light locomotive movements will be timed.




                                       Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
