 NETWORK RAIL                            Timetable Planning Rules                         Version:   4.2
 Route: Wessex                       Final Rules for Subsidiary OFFICIAL
                                                                Change                      Date:    27th October 2023
                                              Timetable 2024                                Page:    52 of 178

5.2 Headways
The definition for Headways is listed in Section 1.5 of the National TPRs.

5.2.1 Headway Values

All times are in minutes. All routes are shown.
Where track circuit block (TCB) signalling applies, the standard headways for each route are shown, together with
any exceptions.
AB indicates locations where absolute block signalling applies. Here the headway is to be calculated from the transit
time of the first of each pair of trains running between the stated timing points. A value “x” shall be added to the
transit time to allow for the signaller’s actions and sighting of the relevant signal. The planning headway is shown as
“AB+x”.
AB methodology may also be used to express the headway in other areas (e.g. TCB), the value “x” including the time
taken to reset the route, clear the signal on entry to the section and sight the relevant signal.
Single lines and other forms of signalling are shown, together with any values applicable, where they occur.
“OTNS” or “OT” indicates One Train Working with No Train Staff; “OTS” or “OT(S)” indicates One Train Working with
Train Staff. “NST” indicates No Signaller token. In these cases only one train is allowed in the section at one time; a
second train cannot be allowed to enter the section until the first train has left the section.
“ETB” indicates Electric Token Block and “TB” indicates Tokenless Block for single lines.
“RB” indicates Radio Signalling where “long section tokens” can be issued between certain block posts during times
of low traffic volume.

Where headways are shown as being “non-stopping” or “stopping” these descriptions refer to the service that the
path is following. The “stopping” headway should be applied to a service following a preceding service which stops at
either a station or any other location for operational reasons. The ‘’non-stopping’’ headway should be applied to a
service following a preceding service which does not stop at that location. Immediately the preceding service stops at
any location for any reason, the following service headway should be amended to the “stopping” value. If in doubt,
apply the use of the “stopping” headway.

Light Engine movements, postal and test trains to be treated as passenger trains when applying margins/allowances
where there is a freight/passenger difference.

Details of how to apply headways are listed in the National TPRs Section 1.5.5.




                                      Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
