 NETWORK RAIL                             Timetable Planning Rules                         Version:   4.2
 Route: Wessex                        Final Rules for Subsidiary OFFICIAL
                                                                 Change                      Date:    27th October 2023
                                               Timetable 2024                                Page:    50 of 178


5 Running Times, Margins and Allowances
Except where otherwise stated; the information in this section of the Timetable Planning Rules reflects the general
rules used in developing the timetable. Exceptions to the general rules may be possible with the specific agreement
by Network Rail in every case.


5.1 Sectional Running Times

The definition for Sectional Running Times (SRTs) is listed in Section 1.4 of the National TPRs.


5.1.1 Source of Current SRTs
The definitive catalogue of SRTs is BPlan.

5.1.2 Method of Calculation
SRTs are revised by Train Operators and Network Rail as part of the Revision of Timetable Planning Rules process
outlined in Network Code Part D 2.2. Normally they will not change from one timetable to the next. Network Rail will,
however, re–calculate SRTs for particular train/route combinations in the following circumstances:

i) Where a Train Operator anticipates using a train/route combination for which no suitable SRTs exist;
ii) Where Network Rail anticipates a change to route data, e.g. line speed changes;
iii) Where there is evidence that the SRTs in current use do not adequately represent real train performance;
iv) Where it is cost–effective to re–calculate all SRTs on a route at the same time as a re–calculation for a particular
     train type.

Network Rail will reflect the methodology and assumptions described in Section 1 of the National TPRs when
calculating TPR proposals, unless and to the extent documented otherwise in respect of any given proposal.
Timetable participants are encouraged to submit change proposals for review and consultation in line with the
national methodology, or in line with such alternative methodology and assumptions as favoured by the proposer. NR
will not seek to reject any proposal on the exclusive basis of the methodology employed, provided that the
methodology and assumptions are clearly stated and demonstrably adhered to in respect of the proposal received.

SRT change proposals may be calculated in a number of ways including, but not limited to:

a)   Through actual timing of trains
b)   Use of On Train Monitoring Recorder (OTMR) systems
c)   Use of computer system actual values
d)   Use of computer simulation tools
e)   By any other agreed methodology

It is permissible to include percentage uplift in SRTs instead of applying engineering recovery allowances to be
agreed by all affected parties.

In the event that the application of different methodologies produces conflicting proposals, a joint observation
exercise should be undertaken to ascertain what happens in reality.

When the final SRTs obtained by the above methodology are different from those currently in use, Network Rail
presents them to Train Operators for comment either in Section 5.1.3 below or through the Timetable Planning Rules
Change Procedure.




                                      Electronic copy - uncontrolled when printed.
